  Going well. Lot of work for an extra 20 secs of Isp!
 Hopefully will happen this decade
 True
 I am accumulating resources to help make life multiplanetary &amp; extend the light of consciousness to the stars
 When vast amounts of manufacturing are needed, as in robotaxis, this slows down rate of introduction, so maybe more like winner-takes-a-quarter. Still great.
  Not trying to roast, just being as literal as possible
 🤣🤣
  Yeah, but I’m English
 Not quite how I would tell the story, but it’s probably worth a read
 This is important
 Wow, hard to believe that was 17 years ago!
       _kirsh _finance  !
     Sigh
_ I actually ate the sandwich haha!
 🤣🤣
Music in zero gravity  
 Given significant architectural changes, including fundamental improvements to pure vision, there is limited value to testing 8.x. Hoping to upload V9.0 &amp; button next month.
 An orbital propellant depot optimized for cryogenic storage probably makes sense long-term
 Преступленіе и наказаніе
 The [ahem] reach-around
  We could talk about Life, the Universe and Everything
  Coming soon!
 🤣🤣
  As you can see, I have a long history with using tents!
 What would you like to talk about?
 💯

   Floor is installed, elevator is operational, waiting on glass
  The high bay is measured to fit!
 We will need launch tower for that. Hook height for the lift is ~140 m &amp; both booster &amp; ship need to be stabilized at stage separation joint.
 Yes, Booster 1 is a production pathfinder, figuring out how to build &amp; transport 70 meter tall stage. Booster 2 will fly.
First Super Heavy Booster  
 Sometimes it’s about Doge
 Haha
The simulation really struggled to make this look real haha  
Aspirationally acerbic alliteration  -&gt; Bullshit baffles brains
   That’s our goal
SN11 almost ready to fly
  cgi irl
Actually, doesn’t feel quite right selling this. Will pass.
 420M Doge
I’m selling this song about NFTs as an NFT  
_com Yes
 SpaceX did 2X rest of world payload to orbit last year, probably 3X to 4X this year
I love music. It makes my heart sing.
This is good   
Play your favorite song in a Tesla &amp; turn the volume to 11  You will see. You will feel.
@____AMiR__  We will support as best we can
 Fly my pretties, fly …
A puckish rogue  
   This is an opportunity for RH to outdo CB!
 What has become absolutely clear is that the plethora of self-driving corner cases can only be solved with real-world optical intelligence. This is how humans designed the road system to work.   Once you have that in silicon form, everything else is just icing on the cake.
Falcon flies for the 9th time tonight
 It sees in all directions simultaneously
I’m getting a Shiba Inu 
 Ja
Homo sapiens techno:  Loves raves &amp; technology
Why are you so dogematic, they ask
Origin of Doge Day Afternoon: The ancient Romans sacrificed a Dogecoin at the beginning of the Doge Days to appease the rage of Sirius, believing that the star was the cause of the hot, sultry weather.
Doge day afternoon
Woketopia. Battle for the Moral High Ground in this new game!
🎶 This Magic Moment 🎶
 Yes!
  Yes
 For sure wise for elderly or immunocompromised to take the vaccine. Some debate about the second jab though. Quite a few negative reactions to that.
FSD Beta has now been expanded to ~2000 owners &amp; we’ve also revoked beta where drivers did not pay sufficient attention to the road. No accidents to date.  Next significant release will be in April. Going with pure vision — not even using radar. This is the way to real-world AI.
  Absolutely
Both do mining &amp; use blocks &amp; chains
BTC (Bitcoin) is an anagram of TBC(The Boring Company) What a coincidence!
   Quarks &amp; leptons
  Green flame in this context means engine is burning internal components made of copper. This is usually followed by a RUD (Rapid Unscheduled Disassembly).
_adri    Dieses Jahr
    Transparent aluminum (ALON) might be cool
  Celebrating a year of great work by the SpaceX team!
 Wow!
@_Shameless_Plug     .
 Like , but *with* self-driving haha
   If 2021 manifest is met, SpaceX will do ~75% of total Earth payload to orbit with Falcon.  A single Starship is designed to do in a day what all rockets on Earth currently do in a year.   Even so, ~1000 Starships will take ~20 years to build a self-sustaining city on Mars.
   Yes
  Falcon 9 is almost always at max capacity. When it has “spare” performance, it flies back to land, which costs much less than using a droneship.  Our fundamental constraint is mass to orbit per unit time. Last year, SpaceX launched roughly double payload mass of rest of world.
 _Diess Fuel cells should be called fool sells! Such a silly choice for cars. Not great even for a rocket upper stage imo, but at least not absurd.
 I was just up there. Elevator on the other side. Floor is in, glass coming soon.
   Yeah, we talked about that internally. Could just have it land on a big net or bouncy castle. Lacks dignity, but would work. But, optimized landing propellant is only ~5% of dry mass, so it’s not a gamechanger.
   Might just catch the ship with the launch tower, same as booster
 Battery energy density is the key to electric aircraft. Autonomy for aircraft could have been done a long time ago. Modern airliners are very close to autonomous.
  There were baffles, but one may have acted like a straw to suck bubbles in from above liquid/gas level.   Something similar happened on an early Falcon 1 flight, resulting in unexpectedly high liquid oxygen residuals at main engine cutoff.
_Soichi ♥️ 🇯🇵
 Fair point. If autogenous pressurization had been used, CH4 bubbles would most likely have reverted to liquid.   Helium in header was used to prevent ullage collapse from slosh, which happened in prior flight. My fault for approving. Sounded good at the time.
 SN10 engine was low on thrust due (probably) to partial helium ingestion from fuel header tank. Impact of 10m/s crushed legs &amp; part of skirt. Multiple fixes in work for SN11.
   We will ask the regulators
 Build 8.3 of FSD should be done QA testing by end of next week, so that’s roughly when download button should show up
 Assuming user approves warning &amp; agrees to drive carefully, it will download latest QA-tested FSD “Beta” build as soon as car connects to wifi
 Delamain AI cabs should be able to drive themselves when you’re in them &amp; be electric by 2077
 … it until you make it
 Not connecting Tesla cars to Starlink, as our terminal is much too big. This is for aircraft, ships, large trucks &amp; RVs.
Starbase, Texas  
 It’s all hot air in the end haha
  Still many fine details to address, but the final product will be fantastic. There’s nothing else even close.
  Haha true. Yet, still, so much dignity is ascribed to horses!
Carnot efficiency of the Universe?
_feed Ultimately, yes
Great band, too bad they broke up  
 Update probably in Q2. Cybertruck will be built at Giga Texas, so focus right now is on getting that beast built.
 The $1400 is mostly good imo (UBI lite), as the people get to choose how the money is spent, but the rest is mostly net bad for the people as a whole (though it is obviously characterized otherwise).
 Should be very soon. Many subtle differences between US &amp; Canada roads, so harder than it seems.
  The Tesla FSD computer started shipping in volume in Q2 2019. 2020 cars should all have FSD computers, whether or not  ordered as an option.
Availability varies by region due to regulatory approval delays and/or Tesla internal development &amp; testing.   Note: word “Beta” is used to reduce complacency in usage &amp; set expectations appropriately. All software is first tested internally by Tesla simulation &amp; QA drive teams.
Due to high levels of demand for FSD Beta, adding “Download Beta” button to Service section of car display in ~10 days
Doge spelled backwards is Egod
 Beta V8.3 has literally ~1000 improvements. Will take time to QA internally before release probably in two or three weeks.
 🤣🤣
  This was way past leg loads. They got squashed hard.
If you want the Tesla Full Self-Driving Beta downloaded to your car, let us know. Doubling beta program size now with 8.2 &amp; probably 10X size with 8.3. Still be careful, but it’s getting mature.
_glenn   Starhopper is an old timer who has seen a lot of things!
 Thrust was low despite being commanded high for reasons unknown at present, hence hard touchdown. We’ve never seen this before.  Next time, min two engines all the way to the ground &amp; restart engine 3 if engine 1 or 2 have issues.
 Was super fun tbh haha
 Or is this just fantasy?
🙄
SN10 is in Valhalla now  
Cybervikings of Mars
 Tesla AI, both hardware &amp; software, is deeply underestimated
  🤣🤣
 Tesla &amp; Ford are the only American carmakers not to have gone bankrupt out of 1000’s of car startups. Prototypes are easy, production is hard &amp; being cash flow positive is excruciating.
 cgi irl 
  SpaceX team is doing great work! One day, the true measure of success will be that Starship flights are commonplace.
  RIP SN10, honorable discharge
Starship SN10 landed in one piece!
Launch abort on slightly conservative high thrust limit. Increasing thrust limit &amp; recycling propellant for another flight attempt today.
5 mins to Starship test flight attempt
March 3rd
Starship launch tomorrow. Window opens at 9am.
    Yes, beta will be offered much more widely when version 9 is done, hopefully next month
   FSD beta build V8.1 normally drives me around with no interventions. Next version is a big step change beyond that. Tesla is solving a major part of real-world AI. This is not widely known.
  You’re welcome
   _in_Canada Good point
  _in_Canada Ok, let’s figure this out tomorrow. I’m all for exciting video coverage, but we also can’t have the place festooned with cameras.
 _in_Canada First I’ve heard of this. We’ll fix the situation. I’m a fan of  video!
 Indeed it was
  Sounds about right, but we want to be very careful with this transition period
 There was still a surprisingly high usage of horses in 1940, but the trend was obvious
_  Space
From thence to Mars, And hence the Stars.
  An area much larger than Boca Chica
 Very much so &amp; its leader shall be The Doge   
Creating the city of Starbase, Texas
 Cool
 Yup
Horses are even self-driving!  
Scammers &amp; crypto should get a room
 2022: Dogecoin is dumb
 Note, buying FSD will still be a better long-term deal than subscription
 Q2 for sure
Green eggs &amp; SPAC
 Looks familiar haha. Nonetheless, the right move. Congrats to Rocket Lab.
 Tesla China team rocks!
Doge meme shield (legendary item)  
New drug coming out called Regretamine. Pop one &amp; all regrets are gone.
Always wondered where exactly your gaming character keeps all the stuff  
 Ahem …

Do androids dream of electric cars?
  🤣🤣
  
 Nothing if not discreet
 Hey babe 😉
🙏  
_glenn   We will use a catapult &amp; air mattresses to land on the roof, then base jump off
  Nickel is our biggest concern for scaling lithium-ion cell production. That’s why we are shifting standard range cars to an iron cathode. Plenty of iron (and lithium)!
  Absolutely
  Fremont shut down for two days (parts shortages) &amp; restarted yesterday
 This is not about winning anyone over. We are production-limited. The reason we are making our own cells is to *supplement* max production of suppliers. Even moving at full speed, they cannot build enough cells.
 I hope they do! It would be awesome 🤣🤣
  Prices in the US (of all goods) don’t include VAT, but it’s usually included in other countries.   Then there’s import duty &amp; transport costs.  The intent is that revenue to Tesla is roughly similar in all countries, so taxes, tariffs &amp; transport make up the difference.
 3mm of full hard 301 or 304 Stainless is bulletproof to a 9mm or .45
Not a meta4, I mean actual books
 Both
I admit to judging books by their cover
Starship to the moon  
 Sounds like a good idea
Out on launch pad, engine swap underway  
 Probably mid year, but Starlink is really meant for those who are least served. Bay usually has great Internet.
You might see much higher download speeds on Starlink at times. Testing system upgrades.
_foust Rockets are ridiculously hard (sigh)
_ I love dogs &amp; memes
On the actual moon
Literally  
    Potentially
   Many steps forward, some steps back. Yes, we do a lot of QA before releasing a beta version.
@_kenh    They will fly there from our launch site.   Stationed around the world.
   Seems likely
  We’re upgrading all NNs to surround video, using subnets on focal areas (vs equal compute on all uncropped pixels) &amp; many other things, so more time needed to write &amp; validate software. Maybe something next week.  This is evolving into solving a big part of physical world AI.
 Interesting
   One of them may be in limited operation by end of year
   One of the engines is suspect, so we’re swapping it out
  Short-term, CH4 delivered &amp; O2 produced. Propellant is ~78% O2. Long-term, Sabatier reaction to convert CO2 + H2O -&gt; CH4 + O2 using wind &amp; solar power.
 Just a Surface Detail
 I hope we don’t go bankrupt building them!
Excession
 🔥🔥
 🍆
 Super cool
  We have too much product complexity already
  Tunnels!!
 _  Hopefully, later this year
_  Later this year
  It is still available off menu, but I don’t think the range, in many drive conditions, yet meets the Tesla standard of excellence
 The Tesla Solar Roof is slightly hydrophobic, so water, snow or ice slide off easily
 Final design is looking👌 Was just in the studio
  Most of Earth by end of year, all by next year, then it’s about densifying coverage.   Important to note that cellular will always have the advantage in dense urban areas.   Satellites are best for low to medium population density areas.
 Speed will double to ~300Mb/s &amp; latency will drop to ~20ms later this year
Of spaceflight
Hypernominalization
Dojo 4 Doge
  Good chance of flying this week!
 Should we?
 🤣🤣
 Why don’t we have these already!?
Cryptocurrency explained  
Or did they say pegged to the dollar? Something like that …
Heard a rumor some crypto coin was pegging the dollar 🤣🤣
_CSAIL Machine learning is so amaze!
  Just some used Antminer L3+ rigs bought off eBay. Not really economic, but it was a fun family project.
 Most people have no idea, even though there are so many FSD progress videos posted. Munro understood right away.   There will be a gap before the next release, but then it will be a step change better.  Tesla is solving a major real-world AI problem.
 I just set up some little Doge mining rigs with my kids. It was fun.
 🤣🤣
 That said, BTC &amp; ETH do seem high lol
 An email saying you have gold is not the same as having gold. You might as well have crypto.  Money is just data that allows us to avoid the inconvenience of barter.  That data, like all data, is subject to latency &amp; error. The system will evolve to that which minimizes both.
_glenn  🤣🤣
 Avocado Toast
I just want to start a flame in your heart
Just for a day
 Congratulations!!
  🔥🔥
  Somehow, a hash text file using ancient crypto can be exchanged for real goods &amp; services!? Amazing.
 To be clear, I am *not* an investor, I am an engineer. I don’t even own any publicly traded stock besides Tesla.   However, when fiat currency has negative real interest, only a fool wouldn’t look elsewhere.   Bitcoin is almost as bs as fiat money. The key word is “almost”.
 Tesla’s action is not directly reflective of my opinion. Having some Bitcoin, which is simply a less dumb form of liquidity than cash, is adventurous enough for an S&amp;P500 company.
 SpaceX in south Texas &amp; Tesla in central have been providing direct assistance where feasible (eg save cold turtles &amp; help power the water treatment plant). Please let us know if we may be helpful in other ways.
 _ISO Yes
._ISO is not earning that R
   You’re right
 Covered in snow &amp; ice, roads mostly closed &amp; no power in Austin
_binance  There will definitely be a MarsCoin!
 Sounds like it is
  Yeah. Active fairing half recovered though.
  SpaceX Boca team is helping save the turtles
   ~5%
  Disturbing concentration
 Only if necessary
 Absolutely
I will literally pay actual $ if they just void their accounts

 Yup
 Temporarily lower, long-term raise
 An acceptable percentage. Doge is much more concentrated.
If major Dogecoin holders sell most of their coins, it will get my full support. Too much concentration is the only real issue imo.
 Success on landing probability is ~60% this time
было бы большой честью поговорить с вами
._E would you like join me for a conversation on Clubhouse?
Lil meme juice for the weekend  
 Good analysis. We’re working on lowering min throttle of Raptor, so that there is engine redundancy throughout the landing burn.
    Yup. Banks are basically balkanized, heterogeneous databases with high latency &amp; weak security, especially ACH transfers &amp; credit cards.
   A know a thing or two about payments
 I’m an alien
_AA_Carmack Ray tracing on Cyberpunk with HDR is next-level. Have you tried it?
  Great interview!
 Doge is underestimated
 Congratulations Tesla China for amazing execution last year. Now on to the next for even more!!
Happy New Year of the Ox!  
Frodo was the underdoge, All thought he would fail, Himself most of all.  
_   Haha thanks :)
  Indeed! Tweets definitely do not represent real-world time allocation.
The most entertaining outcome is the most likely
 Just sent some
Just agree to do Clubhouse with 

  It’s getting real
Bought some Dogecoin for lil X, so he can be a toddler hodler
 He definitely has issues, but the sentencing seems a bit high
 Thanks for fixing
 Please unlock my account
 🤣🤣
This is true power haha  
 Any crypto wallet that won’t give you your private keys should be avoided at all costs
 Your app sucks
 Yes
  _ Once we can predict cash flow reasonably well, Starlink will IPO
 _ Starlink is a staggeringly difficult technical &amp; economic endeavor. However, if we don’t fail, the cost to end users will improve every year.
 _ SpaceX needs to pass through a deep chasm of negative cash flow over the next year or so to make Starlink financially viable. Every new satellite constellation in history has gone bankrupt. We hope to be the first that does not.
_AA_Carmack Lowest cost per ton of carbon sequestered, net of value of any product made.   Must be scalable to gigaton level.  Aiming for maximum usefulness.
_ It’s meant to be the same price in all countries. Only difference should be taxes &amp; shipping.
 This is intended for Earth, but there may be some ideas that apply to Mars too
   _Z_Palmer 🤣🤣
XPrize team will manage the $100M carbon capture prize
 Everyone at Tesla receives stock.   My comp is all stock/options, which I do not take off the table.   That’s what you’re missing.
Back to work I go …
  Does seem a bit high
 Doge appears to be inflationary, but is not meaningfully so (fixed # of coins per unit time), whereas BTC is arguably deflationary to a fault.  Transaction speed of Doge should ideally be a few orders of magnitude faster.
  Wow
 _ 1. Orbital launch tower that can stack 2. Enough Raptors for orbit booster 3. Improve ship &amp; booster mass
_ Back to work tonight!
Ð is for Ðogecoin! Instructional video.  
The people have spoken …
_7_42  So cute 💕
 Extremely misleading image, as doesn’t reflect true time cost to people or rain &amp; pain
🎶 Who let the Doge out 🎶
Hodl the rainforests!!
So … it’s finally come to this …  
 It’s the most fun crypto!
   Its simplicity is its genius
_g_dogg  Yup
  🤣🤣
 True
 🤣🤣
  Not that easy. This is two decades of intense work. Have to look at old notes, emails, texts.
 Yes
Lessons learned
Of Earth and Mars
Time to tell the story of Tesla &amp; SpaceX
 Have you read ? It’s great!!
The Second Last Kingdom  
  Haven’t heard that name in years …
 Dogecake
YOLT   
 That’s Damian
 Yeah
_ Sure
The great thing about restaurants is that you get to hang out with strangers! - SJM
The future currency of Earth
 Just a scratch
Much wow!
 🖤
 Destiny
   Franz was essential
 _bickett   That said, the ship landing burn has a clear solution. My greatest concern is achieving good payload to orbit with rapid &amp; full reusability, without which we shall forever be confined to Earth.
_  _bickett   Will still use hot gas maneuvering (RCS) thrusters, as ~5X more efficient than nitrogen (300 sec vs 60 sec Isp)
 _bickett   Higher Isp too
 _bickett   Intuitively, it would seem so, but turbopump-fed Raptors have much higher thrust &amp; propellant mass fraction than pressure-fed gas thrusters &amp; they’re already there
  Yes
  It’s true!
_bickett    Yeah. By default, engine with least lever arm would shut down if all 3 are good.
   Yes, but engines have a min throttle point where there is flameout risk, so landing on 3 engines means high thrust/weight (further away from hover point), which is also risky
_   Yes
  It was foolish of us not to start 3 engines &amp; immediately shut down 1, as 2 are needed to land
I am become meme, Destroyer of shorts
_cruz Might actually happen
Sandstorm is a masterpiece
 We were too dumb
Next time, we try pull *up* method  
Low-key Loki
No highs, no lows, only Doge
No need to be a gigachad to own
Dogecoin is the people’s crypto
ur welcome  
 The most entertaining outcome is the most likely
Doge

 High seas &amp; wind
This was a tough one
Off Twitter for a while
It will be filled with graffiti art
 мы сделаем
Giga Berlin progress  
__  Neuralink is working super hard to ensure implant safety &amp; is in close communication with the FDA. If things go well, we might be able to do initial human trials later this year.
If you’ve worked on advanced wearables, phones or robots, those skills are needed 
Feels weird helping make (hopefully good version of) Cyberpunk come true
Please consider working at Neuralink!  Short-term: solve brain/spine injuries Long-term: human/AI symbiosis   Latter will be species-level important   Work at either at our Bay Area or Austin locations

On Clubhouse tonight at 10pm LA time
 _Cooney     Tom has some great stories about experimenting with premixed O2/CH4 before SpaceX. That is not recommended haha.
 _Cooney     He became a big fan of methane, but was not pushing it initially. That came from me reading about Soviet methane engine tests that got over 380 Isp. At that Isp, a subcooled methane stage gets slightly better delta-V than a hydrogen stage.
_Cooney     That sounds correct. Tom certainly deserves a lot of credit for his excellent work on those engines! Dean Ono too for Kestrel &amp; Draco.
_Cooney     Tom is great &amp; was instrumental in developing early versions of Merlin &amp; Kestrel, but not later versions of Merlin or Starship/Raptor
  T/W will be ~1.5, so it will accelerate unusually fast. High T/W is important for reusable vehicles to make more efficient use of propellant, the primary cost. For expendable rockets, throwing away stages is the primary cost, so optimization is low T/W.
  No escaping that for me
 Read the whole article 🤣🤣
Warm, sunny day &amp; snowy mountains  
What a beautiful day in LA  
_ Yeah, Dr Frankensteen  
 I never used this guy. He gave a talk at SpaceX once.
 Only Halo

 I sure hope that’s not true at Tesla or SpaceX!
  Cryoproof, then install engines
Starship SN9 &amp; SN10  
In retrospect, it was inevitable
 Great shot
_menieb Live by the sword, die by the sword
 Entropy
  Buy &amp; hold companies that make goods &amp; produce services you love
_feed Earth is small &amp; we are smaller still  
 👀
With Cyberpunk, even the hotfixes literally have hotfixes, but … great game

 The dollar is shorting itself
 Indeed
    Shopify is great too. SpaceX used them.
  🤣🤣
  Indeed. The economy — making useful products &amp; providing great services — is what actually matters.
   TANSTAAFL. Would be better to have small fees than no fees, as latter makes Robinhood beholden to big trading houses. Got to pay the bills somehow. Even Etsy has fees.
Here come the shorty apologists Give them no respect Get Shorty
u can’t sell houses u don’t own u can’t sell cars u don’t own but  u *can* sell stock u don’t own!? this is bs – shorting is a scam legal only for vestigial reasons
  Yes
 Finishing engineering this year, production starts next year. Aiming to have release candidate design drivable late summer. Tri-motor drive system &amp; advanced battery work were important precursors.
  I made that video!
  Absolutely
 Unlike its aircraft division, which is fine, the FAA space division has a fundamentally broken regulatory structure.   Their rules are meant for a handful of expendable launches per year from a few government facilities. Under those rules, humanity will never get to Mars.
 Nomad
 🤗
The esthetics of Cyberpunk are incredible btw. The interior design is👌.
  Major esthetics improvements coming
 _Ryan A little
_Ryan New Roadster is part rocket
_Ryan   There’s more storage now &amp; easily upgradable
  
_Investor Yes
_7TeslaNews  Yeah, probably in a few months
 After you drive without using a PRND stalk/stick for a few days, it gets very annoying to go back &amp; use a shifter!
 No more stalks. Car guesses drive direction based on what obstacles it sees, context &amp; nav map. You can override on touchscreen.
 A hedge fund that shorts is a shrubbery
   
  Yeah, also a rear screen
0 to 155mph trap speed in a 1/4 mile. 200mph top speed (with right tires).
First production car ever to achieve 0 to 60 mph in less than 2 seconds
It can play Cyberpunk
Plaid Model S ships next month  
Even Discord has gone corpo …
 Yup. Wild times on Discord haha.

 Waiting for FAA review …
Gamestonk!!   
 Passed initial pressure test
 Yes
  
Bought a hand knit wool Marvin the Martian helm for my dog

I kinda love Etsy
 It does not serve the public to hamstring Starlink today for an Amazon satellite system that is at best several years away from operation
 We’re hoping for FAA approval of a test flight tomorrow afternoon
 The entire “stack” from data collection through labeling &amp; inference has to be in surround video. This is a hard problem. Critically, however, this does not require a hardware change to cars in field.
  Yes, although it will be crazy not to turn  on FSD
 Tesla is steadily moving all NNs to 8 camera surround video. This will enable superhuman self-driving.
 [Some tyranny]. Also, the road to hell is mostly paved with bad intentions.
 Catchy!  
 _Intel   All sats launched next year will have laser links. Only our polar sats have lasers this year &amp; are v0.9.
 _Intel   Yup
   I hope so
_com These also have laser links between the satellites, so no ground stations are needed over the poles
  Sorry for the version confusion. V8.1 is what it should say for FSD. Separate version number for rest of car.
 To my surprise, Tesla has better AI hardware &amp; software than Waymo (money)
  It floats
  Fallout-themed opening party for Vegas Loop happening as soon as allowed!
_E_Benton  🤣🤣
Under Vegas in  tunnel yesterday with my boys  
  Lasers
 💯
 We’re switching to a more sensible FSD version numbering to distinguish between major &amp; minor updates. Current build is FSD 8.1. It drove me to an unfamiliar location in LA &amp; back last night with no interventions!
 Hopefully, early next week
  Given so many other companies are depending on this mission, it is getting even more scrutiny than a Starlink flight
Launching many small satellites for a wide range of customers tomorrow. Excited about offering low-cost access to orbit for small companies!
 They are part of the solution, but require lots of fresh water &amp; land. We may need something that’s ultra-large- scale industrial in 10 to 20 years. For now, by far the top priority is accelerating the transition to a sustainable energy economy.
  SN9  
 It’s a good path for fully renewable rocket energy, so solves part of problem, but longer chain hydrocarbons than CH4 are needed to be solid at room temp
Details next week
Am donating $100M towards a prize for best carbon capture technology
  _        Pretty much
      That would probably mean civilization is doing great, although depends on assumptions for inflation haha
   _cz     _glenn _aw He’s everywhere 🤣🤣
  Absolutely! They rock. 🖤
 The rate-limiting part or process in cell production is constantly changing
  Cars &amp; trucks stuck in traffic generate megatons of toxic gases &amp; particulate, but  road tunnels under Miami would solve traffic &amp; be an example to the world.   Spoke with  about tunnels last week. If Governor &amp; Mayor want this done, we will do it.
 _  With our giant casting machines, we are literally trying to make full-size cars in the same way that toy cars are made
  Tegmark is an exceptionally smart &amp; good human
_ The best manufacturing technology is in ultra high volume industries, like food &amp; beverage, some medical (eg syringes) &amp; toys
Battery cell production is the fundamental rate-limiter slowing down a sustainable energy future. Very important problem.
_ferragu Looking into this. No question that FSD should be viewed as reasonably valuable when doing a trade-in.
  For sure
 Glad you’re ok
_Orbit Congratulations!
 This is a good one
 I whistle
_Ryan _R_H_M  Cybertruck doesn’t need a garage
_Ryan  It will be awesome
 Good point
 Your server-side code is doing too much
 Happy birthday Wikipedia! So glad you exist.
 Guess you been watching Cobra Kai
  Fallout New Texas
  Only Chuck Norris can divide by zero
   Good point
  The thing we call money is just an information system for labor allocation.   What actually matters is making goods &amp; providing services.   We should look at currencies from an information theory standpoint.   Whichever has least error &amp; latency will win.
Monty Python is amazing  
   They sure can twist the knife in that show!
  Probably wise
 We’re making major improvements to ease of engine swap. Needs to be a few hours at most.
   Two of the engines need slight repairs, so will be switched out
  Nice shot
 We don’t have high school internships, but please apply when you’re in college!
 Prototypes are easy, volume production is hard, positive cash flow is  excruciating
 Physics
 Detanking &amp; inspections now. Good progress towards our “Hop in &amp; go to Mars!” goal.
All three static fires completed &amp; no RUDs!
   Wow, a lot has happened in 10 years!
 Fair enough haha

 Sea shanty tiktok takes it to a new level with actual pirate ships
 Sure
Today at SpaceX is about practicing Starship engine starts. Ship is held down by massive pins while engines are fired. Two starts completed, about to try a third.
_com As promised
Legalize comedy
 You can steal our name/logos &amp; we probably won’t sue you
  We’re just trying to get people to Mars. Help would be appreciated.
 _Station One day, we will get a camera up there that also shows the star field in the background
 Suicide is more than double homicide  
 Absolutely
Hey you … Yeah you Queen … You’re gonna make it! 💕💕  
   Hate to say it, but might be true
 The robot future is coming
  300km every millisecond, but there are times I wish it were faster
  
  
Mus protec 👶 yoda  
 Он был великолепен
  This is an important distinction
 Much more than this &amp; increasing rapidly
  It is
 Once in a while, something happens that is even better than we imagined
 The factory is the product
  Probably commenting on  will do more
 I bought the replacement glass from a junkyard for $20. They’re great places to get spare parts.
 A lot of people are going to be super unhappy with West Coast high tech as the de facto arbiter of free speech
  Already donated to Signal a year ago. Will donate more.
 I am primarily trying to advance two causes: sustainable energy &amp; extending life/consciousness beyond Earth. There is also the existential threat of AI, which we should aspire to mitigate. This doesn’t leave time to write books.
_wooseok   🤣🤣
  Maybe a Tesla AI day later this year
 The Prancing Pony?
 🤣🤣
 😢
 It’s true
  Yes, but not for long
 Yeah, they seemed optimistic too
My 14-year-old son, Saxon, said he feels like 2021 will be a good year. I agree. Let us all make it so.
  Was also thinking that SpaceX Boca should hold fun parties and give tours for the community from time to time
  I super support public spaces around our production &amp; launch sites, wherever it can be done safely and securely. When covid passes, we will open up our restaurant to the public &amp; figure out ways to allow limited access to the High Bar.
    That too
   Catapult high into the air &amp; land on the roof with a base jumping parachute (the only way to travel)
  That’s actually our restaurant, but SpaceX is building a futuristic bar at the top of the high bay with 360 degree windows &amp; a glass floor looking down on the rocket factory
 And increase fun! Hopefully.
 Me neither
  One of the best Tesla Solar Roof installations
 No, but maybe one day
 _feed Yes, that would be the best way to do it. A large solar field or reactor is needed for power, and then some ice mining droids or long maneuvering drills are needed for the H2O. These are probably the trickier bits.
_feed His sick beats  
 Probably less than a few dozen primary decision-makers. Technically, only three.
  Or at least the option for verification, so that the public can ascribe more credibility to verified vs unverified accounts
Launch underway
Btw, critical feedback is always super appreciated, as well as ways to donate money that really make a difference (way harder than it seems)
 _feed Yup
_feed Indirectly, an electric rocket is possible by using electricity to convert CO2+H2O —&gt; CH4+O2. This will be needed on Mars even for early missions &amp; Earth too over time.
_feed Not to get to orbit, unfortunately. In space, photon emission powered by matter-antimatter annihilation would rock, but that’s more of a long-term solution.
  This will be hard to make, as it isn’t like any other vehicle
 Playing the long game
 True
_AA_Carmack I hope so. Wings don’t work on the moon at all and def not well on Mars. Also, no runways.
 Hamiltonians have +2V the potential of Langrangians and a play!

 Well, back to work …
 How strange
Use Signal
 Ya don’t say. Reminds me of this timeless classic …  
 Fast water with tiny rocks
 Yes, and then Occam’s razor is actually third most likely
As seen from an external observer, not the participants
The most entertaining outcome is the most likely
 Dumb and Dumber is a great movie tho
This is called the domino effect  
         Doesn’t quite illustrate true size difference. Starship payload volume &amp; mass are &gt;1000% that of Shuttle.
Because of the large footprint, it may seem flat, but actually ranges up to 5 stories tall
Snow falling on Giga Berlin  
  Yes
 😉
 Tesla is responsible for 2/3 of all the personal &amp; professional pain in my life combined. But it was worth it.
So proud of the Tesla team for achieving this major milestone! At the start of Tesla, I thought we had (optimistically) a 10% chance of surviving at all.
 Um, we have giant fusion reactor in the sky that works with no maintenance
_ai Tesla Full Self-Driving will work at a safety level well above that of the average driver this year, of that I am confident. Can’t speak for regulators though.
 Dojo isn’t needed, but will make self-driving better. It isn’t enough to be safer than human drivers, Autopilot ultimately needs to be more than 10 times safer than human drivers.
Ignore the heading
Great interview with Mathias Döpfner  
 🎩 The Greatest Gatsby 🎩
 Inspired by the ballet
  Rocket motion is primarily vertical, so you want the top open
 Let’s make the roaring 20’s again!
 Might be a few lumps along the way
   Production is hard, prototypes are easy. Building ~1000 Starships to create a self-sustaining city on Mars is our mission.
_Enough     Exactly
 Haha
   SN9 will press CH4 header tank with helium. Long-term solution is under debate. Not clear what is lightest/simplest.
    Yes
   Legs would certainly work, but best part is no part, best step is no step
  Yes
  Saves mass &amp; cost of legs &amp; enables immediate repositioning of booster on to launch mount — ready to refly in under an hour
 We’re going to try to catch the Super Heavy Booster with the launch tower arm, using the grid fins to take the load
Snake-head dog had my undivided attention until winder-head ostrich came gliding through all nonchalant  
_com Seems odd that the opposition group is from BMW’s home state of Baveria. That‘s very far from Brandenburg, where Tesla is building the Gigafactory.   And why would a group that claims to be pro-environment oppose a sustainable energy factory? Aren’t there more important issues?
_com This is very sensible. Opposition from anywhere cannot mean no progress everywhere!
 Literally
 Are we sure this is real?
Destiny, destiny No escaping  that for me
All Tesla cars delivered in the final three days of the year will get three months of the Full Self-Driving option for free. Delivery &amp; docs must be fully complete by midnight Dec 31st.
_Inc And Mark Dankberg. This action is wack, not dank!!
_Zadeh Less?
 Westworld
The Last Kingdom show is great
 Absolutely. Will be text &amp; visualization, but could add voice too.
_central !! Even cheese is made of cake !!
 If they don’t love us, we’re in deep trouble!
Not everything is made of cake  
_glenn True haha
Such a weird game when you think about it  
This is not CGI  
 We need a UI overhaul
   No, these are just incremental improvements to the production codebase. FSD build is a fundamental rewrite, not just in the car, but also our video training/labeling software.
_Inc Starlink “poses a hazard” to Viasat’s profits, more like it. Stop the sneaky moves, Charlie Ergen!
Entertainment will be critical when cars drive themselves
 Just meeting with Larry Ellison to seek some advice. Back working on Tesla end of quarter tomorrow.
_ Absolutely
What should Tesla do with in-car gaming in an autonomous world?
  Absolutely
_com Taste of the future
Try playing Polytopia in your Tesla! Great game. Multiplayer online version coming soon.
 Focus on making products &amp; services people truly love, so that the total economic pie is bigger, instead of engaging in zero-sum/negative-sum corporate power struggles. This is the good future.
 _siphiw   Roughly 95% of parts in Tesla Roadster were unique — not in any other product. Unfortunately, since we started out with the (dumb, in retrospect) goal of simply adapting Lotus Elise to electric, we ended up with a 10% too small sports car that seems kinda like a Lotus.
  Yes
_feed Very important
  Ok, service might be able to do this. Will check.
  You mean install the external speaker on earlier cars that don’t have it?
  No, but definitely this year
 Good point
 _stve  Interesting
 Liz has always done great interviews
_stve  Falcon was 25% of successful orbital launches in 2020, but maybe a majority of payload to orbit. Anyone done the math?
 Vaccines are just the start. It’s also capable in theory of curing almost anything. Turns medicine into a software &amp; simulation problem.
      Yes
     We will offer multiple display options
   A few more revisions needed. Probably Beta 10 or 11.
  Sure
  Haha ok
 _adri  There are subtle, important, differences between US &amp; Canada traffic rules, but FSD beta will be extended to Canada very soon
_adri  Yes
 We need a “match other traffic speed” setting
 Definitely
 _extrachars It’s a step in that direction
 It’s one 🔥 or 1/2 🔥 if you don’t have a car with pedestrian speaker. We couldn’t get everything done in time, but more stuff coming.
 The writing on Cobra Kai is sick👌
 Haha I will save you the nightmare of seeing me in those shorts
_extrachars You can upload custom music/sounds
 Unfortunately, pedestrian speaker is needed, otherwise no external sound generator except actual horn
Change your horn sound to 🐐, 🐍🎷, 💨 or holiday jingles with latest Tesla software update!
Merry Christmas &amp; happy holidays! 🎁  
_com Great game!
  It will most likely make sense for Starlink to go public once the revenue growth is reasonably predictable
 Engineering, design &amp; general company operations absorb vast majority of my mind &amp; are the fundamental limitation on doing more.   Capital allocation is important, but low CPU load. Tesla public company duties are a much bigger factor, but going private is impossible now (sigh).
 _Futurist  Yes
  A few months
 Coming soon
 Minor
 Yeah
12 story rocket turns off its engines &amp; does a controlled fall
 Yup, we’re just ironing out a few bugs
To Tesla owners taking delivery in the final days of year, your support is super appreciated!!
  Frictionless AI. What could possibly go wrong?
 Good idea
 During the darkest days of the Model 3 program, I reached out to Tim Cook to discuss the possibility of Apple acquiring Tesla (for 1/10 of our current value). He refused to take the meeting.
 Strange, if true.   - Tesla already uses iron-phosphate for medium range cars made in our Shanghai factory.  - A monocell is electrochemically impossible, as max voltage is ~100X too low. Maybe they meant cells bonded together, like our structural battery pack?
 Sparta’s reply to Macedon
    Hi Liz!
Thanks to everyone who worked so hard to make Tesla successful. My heart goes out to you.
 Indeed
 It was a seriously twisted affair, but all’s that ends well.
 They are, although it’s kind low-key. Tesla Superchargers are being made accessible to other electric cars.
_saylor Are such large transactions even possible?
♥️ i love all u crazy ppl out there ♥️
 You have a point (sigh)
 Great game
 Pretty much. The main value of college used to be hanging out, having pseudo intellectual conversations &amp; partying with people your own age. Now, even that’s gone.
Come for the comments,  stay for the memes💄
 Absolutely. We will release FSD subscription early next year.
One word: Doge
Bitcoin is almost as bs as fiat money
_miloslav Great nails &amp; lipstick
  _kalo        Nice

 Sounds about right
“Lord” Edge
 _thelen Nice branding
Just kidding, who needs a safe word anyway!?
Bitcoin is my safe word
 Standing down for today to inspect rocket. Hopefully launching tomorrow.
 Pressure is slightly high in upper stage liquid oxygen tank. Review underway.
__Mania I am hoping to be back next month!
 Very impressive mission by China!
 Last launch of 2020 coming up
   He was indeed quite grumpy, but we did not actually know what we were doing, so he had a point
 It will get absurdly good. Tesla AI/Autopilot engineering is awesome! There’s some great AI out there, but can it self-drive while playing Cyberpunk … ?
Star Light, Star Bright  
  This is incorrect
 🤣🤣
 But it is visually stunning &amp; playability is good
 A t-shirt being better armor than a Kevlar chest plate doesn’t make sense in the absence of magic. Also, wish there weren’t level-based item limits in a single-player game.
 Oh and umm …
 I absolutely support trans, but all these pronouns are an esthetic nightmare
  The Raptors were well below max thrust or the ship would have blown through the altitude limit. As we hit min throttle point, an engine would shut off.
  Far from fully loaded, but we were going slow or the ship would have gone crazy high/far with three engines
_john  It’s a good to great game imo, but improving what may seem like mere surface detail would make it unequivocally great
_tesla _com Perhaps slightly more confident, but it’s essential to view this as output vs time. As with all manufacturing, especially new technology, output will follow an S-curve. Very slow at first, but increasing exponentially, then linear, then logarithmic.
_com Dankeschön Brandenburg und Grünheide!
  Sure hope that future doesn’t come to pass!
_com Giga Berlin-Brandenburg will be the first to use our new structural pack architecture, 4680 (world’s most advanced cells, made on-site), both front &amp; rear body castings &amp; advanced paint shop. Warning: with so much new technology, production timing is naturally harder to predict.
  Original Deus Ex was incredible, Human Revolution was also great
 The objective reality is that it is impossible to run an advanced game well on old hardware. This is a much more serious issue:  
 .
Ascent to the Heavens  
_feed 🤣
  Yeah, briefly. Seems pretty good. I picked Nomad, so start was a little slow, but picks up fast. Seemed like almost everyone on Steam was playing Cyberpunk at some point this weekend!
 _menieb   
Hehe  
  
  


 init void
   *cooling haha
   I still have a soft spot in my heart for transpiration cooking. In theory, it would use more mass than a tile heatshield, but that remains to be seen.
  Ship leeward side will be bare metal, windward will have black, hexagonal heat shield tiles
 _CG Yes
  Agreed, should be preserved in memory of SN8
  Exactly! Woohoo!!
  SN8 did great! Even reaching apogee would’ve been great, so controlling all way to putting the crater in the right spot was epic!!
Thank you, South Texas for your support! This is the gateway to Mars.
Life, the Universe and Everything  
 Yeah, engines did great!
Mars, here we come!!
Fuel header tank pressure was low during landing burn, causing touchdown velocity to be high &amp; RUD, but we got all the data we needed! Congrats SpaceX team hell yeah!!
Successful ascent, switchover to header tanks &amp; precise flap control to landing point!
 🤠
 Near-orbital space is the fastest way to travel long distance on Earth!
 _Station It’s called the Space “Station”, but it’s actually moving around Earth at ~25 times the speed of sound or ~10 times faster than a rifle bullet
“So long, and thanks for the orifice!” - Alien message decrypted
 Probably 1/3 chance of completing all mission objectives
 Hopefully flying tomorrow
 Yup
Out on the pad in South Texas  
_Station  Wow, Station looks amazing!
 Knock, knock, singing telegram!
 Carrying even more symbiotic bacteria (~40 trillion) than cells
_  Yes
 We are mobile cell colonies
100
Im Gespräch mit Mathias Döpfner    
_jaxa _en Congratulations!
_jaxa Congratulations!
   Yes, it does.
 And no toilet paper 🤣🤣
Watch Demolition Man
Prometheus Unbound
      Not bad
 It was a beast compared to the VIC-20
_com Award accepted on behalf of the great people at Tesla, SpaceX, Neuralink &amp; Boring Co
Much of what people think of an science is actually engineering, eg no such thing as a “rocket scientist”, only rocket engineers. Latter is who put humans on the moon.
Science is discovering the essential truths about what exists in the Universe, engineering is about creating things that never existed  
 It does get a bit cold at night
_feed Paint makes a hell of a difference
 Congrats!
 Thanks for everything you did to help build SpaceX! Some of the best memories ever.
 It will be real soon
    Starship legs are one of the hardest problems. Externally mounted legs require shielding, which adds mass. Wider stance adds mass. Shock absorbers add mass. That said, we need better legs.
   Static fire is not risky from build site, but we need to clear the build site for early flights
  Just a static fire tomorrow. Flight no earlier than Wednesday.
  It will have landing legs
   Yes, very sad news. Tony was great.
  For a second there, I thought that was a pic of Thanos haha
_BearQ _AA_Carmack Yeah, truncate zeros &amp; then round
 _AA_Carmack Probably going to a wider beta in ~2 weeks
_AA_Carmack fp16 with least important digits truncated (so it feels like fp32) is what we’re betting on for training with Dojo
_AA_Carmack Int8 for almost all heavy lifting in inference works great
 But actually!  
  
Happy Thanksgiving!
      Hopefully next month
     Ok. Overall air suspension height &amp; damping algorithm is getting a lot of attention. Will be linked to FSD, so acts automatically.
 Haha true
 The Promise is greatly needed
 We will have special colors for new Roadster, as we did for the original
  🤣🤣
. is savage 🤣🤣
 If you ever wondered where we came from
This is a life leader launch, so more risk than normal
   Yes, but only slightly filled
   This is a subject of much debate
  Major upgrades are slated for SN15
  Many small improvements, but overall similar. Wiring is more robust, engines are more mature, nosecone is sealed better, etc.
 But that’s why we have SN 9 &amp; SN10
 Lot of things need to go right, so maybe 1/3 chance
Good Starship SN8 static fire! Aiming for first 15km / ~50k ft altitude flight next week. Goals are to test 3 engine ascent, body flaps, transition from main to header tanks &amp; landing flip.
  Maybe start on that a year from now. Depends on how Starship progress goes.
  Not yet
  Not bad! We will definitely need more engines if we make the cargo bay all propellant, but it’s probably smarter than a whole new shorter external hull.
 Rapid &amp; complete rocket reuse, low cost propellant, orbital refilling &amp; propellant production at destination are the four essential elements of making life multiplanetary
    Yes
   We’re still far from simply video in, control out. The biggest game-changer, currently underway at Tesla, is 360 degree, high fps video for labeling, training &amp; inference.
  FSD Beta 5 coming out in a few days. Improvement should be significant.
 Exciting mission!
  Wow
_Boeree Yea
Tomorrow will be the 7th flight of this rocket, landing on droneship Of Course I Still Love You
   Sure
  True
   We have quiet a queue of products to build! Better do new Roadster at some point😬.
  Fate loves irony, but hates hypocrisy
_Enough  Yes 😃
 Our data center was named Skynet as a joke over 10 years ago. Might have been tempting fate!
  Tesla is a vehicle for creating &amp; producing many useful products
 Largest cast titanium part in the world. No heat shielding needed.
Landing at Vandenberg AFB in California
   _LSP   Actually, off to the side (so it doesn’t take out the launch mount in bad landing), but with the same arm used to pick up the ship
   _LSP   Where it should be!
  Because I am not an investor. Tesla is definitely not the only good company, but investing is not what I do. But I always put my own money into companies I help create, otherwise it’d be wrong to ask others to do so.
Well, almost anything
Quite the day ahead
  Now *this* is what you’d call pointy!
 Cool
_Fonseca _Station   They’re moving at ~25 times the speed of sound, but it feels like nothing
  
     _Station There will always be upgrades
    _Station It will be better than human vision by quite a margin
_nafnlaus   _Station Reality looks like a strange ghost-world at radar wavelengths. Almost everything except metal is translucent.
   _Station Exactly
  This is a misperception. SpaceX developed &amp; continues to use lidar for Dragon docking with _Station.   Just pointless imo for self-driving. If you’re going to do active photon generation, use an occlusion penetrating wavelength, like precision radar at ~4mm.
  One day we will fly you on Starship
_J_Beck Well done!
  I can’t comment on turbopump internal details, but you’re roughly in the ballpark. Wow, rocket turbopumps, especially if oxygen-rich, are insanely hard! Arguably, the hardest mechanical/fluids/combustion problem known to exist.
 To be clear, this was just an XPeng problem. Other companies in China have not done this.
   Andrej is awesome, but it should be said that we have a very talented Autopilot/AI team at Tesla. Too much credit comes to me &amp; Andrej.
  Yeah. They stole Apple’s code too.  
 They have an old version of our software &amp; don’t have our NN inference computer
 Wild times!
 Congrats!
 .
_AA_Carmack Yup
 Change out a few parts, otherwise fine
 Caution strongly advised with SPACs
   Sure
  Haha sexy cropping champion of all time
  If next week’s release looks good, we will widen beta
  Unfortunately, there are too many rules around liquor distribution, even in the US. However, we will be selling the lightning bottle &amp; shot glasses worldwide.
 Next week’s release is special. Lot of fundamental improvements, both important bug fixes &amp; entire new areas of functionality.
  13 years &amp; $11 billion … wow
_   Safety is our primary design goal
   Fully
 Let the Martians decide their own future
  A lot of my brain space is spent dealing with both units!
 Terraforming will be too slow to be relevant in our lifetime. However, we can establish a human base there in our lifetime. At least a future spacefaring civilization – discovering our ruins – will be impressed humans got that far.
   That is certainly the intention!
   
 The only publicly traded stock I own is Tesla
 Wise words from Bogle. The point of companies is products &amp; services. They have no point in &amp; of themselves, nor do these indices. Buy &amp; hold stock in companies where you love the product roadmap, sell where you don’t.  
   No, just a mild cold. Same with my bro. Def had cov2 though. Pc&lt;20 means viral load of &gt;10 million per mL.
 Life in glass domes at first. Eventually, terraformed to support life, like Earth.
  Yeah
_xD  I was going to say “Sim!”, but that seemed too obvious haha
 Deveras!
 And cases with high (non-infectious) Ct should quarantine for a few days, while getting another test. Second test determines whether they’re just beginning to get ill or are on the long tail afterwards, where viral fragments exist, but person is not infectious.
 So many things you want &amp; some you didn’t know you wanted
 Maybe a little Mercy …  
Tesla holiday software release is 🔥🔥
 _Williams 😏
Cobra Kai is a deep cut
 It’s all cake &amp; someone took a bite
 There is such a thing as too much sentience
Deus ex machine learning  
 It’s designed to make life multiplanetary, otherwise extreme overkill for mere Earth sector activity!   Starship fleet mass to orbit per year will be more than 1000 times all current Earth rockets combined, including Falcon. Necessary, for a city on Mars.
  More like he gave it his blessing. It was sort of a groundswell of those who believed in the scientific method in London.
Nullius in Verba 
 Indeed
   Dojo/Doge
   Yeah, looks like marginal cost of launch will be less than $1M for more than 100 tons to orbit, so it’s mostly about fixed costs divided by launches per year
   Exactly
  Merlin is a strong local maximum design, but kerosene is suboptimal fuel, no matter what you do.   What matters is cost per ton to Mars. CH4 is the only choice imo. Important: O2/CH4 allows OF ratio of ~3.5 vs ~2.5 for kerosene, so ~78% of propellant is oxygen.
 _bickett _Enough   Yes, but from a visiting American. Ah, the irony is just too much!!
_bickett _Enough   Yeah, PCR Ct was unequivocal at &lt;20. Doesn’t matter what method you use at that low a cycle threshold.
   Maybe making some notable changes. Will wait until figurative &amp; literal dust settles.
_Enough   Pretty close. Definitely feel 💯 if I take DayQuil. Frankly, this was one of the mildest cold/flu experiences I’ve ever had.
  Avionics cables moving to steel pipe shields &amp; adding water-cooled steel pipes to test pad
  About 2 secs after starting engines, martyte covering concrete below shattered, sending blades of hardened rock into engine bay. One rock blade severed avionics cable, causing bad shutdown of Raptor.
  The most amazing thing about rocket engines is that they *sometimes* don’t blow up! The amount of power going through them boggles the mind.
 We should just count the atoms at this point
    Absolutely. Production/testing of rocket engines is over 90% of the problem. This is true in general. For cars, production is over 99% of the problem. That 1% inspiration is very important, but it’s less than 1% of the pain.
   Our first Merlin engine design was really bad tbh. Nothing worked well &amp; some parts didn’t work at all. 18 years later &amp; thousands of upgrades make it a great GG cycle engine.
    Maybe *I* just love irony haha
    They’re on their way! Hopefully, more Teslaquila next month.
_NSF Special permission received from Stonecutters Guild!  
   Fate 🖤 Irony
 Well said.
 _Williams 👻 💵   
  Damn, that’s not easy! I spent quite a bit of time looking at Russian/Ukrainian engines. They’re good.
 _lab Yes
_Williams 🎶 Toss a bitcoin to ur Witcher 🎶
 😉
 _lab CureVac, Moderna &amp; a few others. Tesla makes the machine CureVac uses to go from known gene sequence to trillions of lipid-coated mRNA strands.
_lab Creating synthetic mRNA for cures/vaccines is the future of medicine imo. Turns it (mostly) into a software &amp; modeling problem.
_anne _Skeptic  _herbers Haha
_lab Great thread
 I’m ok, thanks for asking. No symptoms for past few days, apart from fatigue. Unless something changes, would have to say that it simply felt like a mild cold.
♥️
Launch in 5 minutes
 Yeah, with cooling channels integrated into the chamber walls
The same propellant is used either for abort or for orbital maneuvering, as one use obviates the other
Dragon can also hover &amp; land propulsively, but we use the parachutes for maximum safety  
Thrusters are integrated with spacecraft, enabling abort capability all the way to abort for increased safety
 Ok
    Yeah, I feel pretty normal. No symptoms right now. Last week, I had symptoms of a minor cold. I’ve had some brutal flu/cold experiences, but this was mild &amp; hopefully over.
   Doing tests from several different labs, same time of day, administered by RN &amp; am requesting N1 gene PCR cycle threshold. There is no official standard for PCR testing. Not sure people realize this.
 _Livio Both obv insanely great, too bad they had this pointless argument
Astronaut launch today!
_Livio No kids though
_Livio Hell of a wig collection too
_lab It would be great if labs could give people this level of granular feedback in their results
Worth reading this thread if you’re curious about rona testing
 _lab They should be imo. If you get a blood pressure test, they tell you the number, not just if it’s high/not-high. There is not a clear consensus on what Ct value of what cov2 gene constitutes “positive”.
  A little up &amp; down. Feels just like a regular cold, but more body achy &amp; cloudy head than coughing/sneezing. DayQuil rocks.
_lab In your opinion, at what Ct number for the cov2 N1 gene should a PCR test probably be regarded as positive? If I’m asking the wrong question, what is a better question?
_lab  !
 Cool, but please be super cautious. Expect two steps forward, one back. Lot of new code was merged.
 Just a scratch. We can buff it out.
 Am getting wildly different results from different labs, but most likely I have a moderate case of covid. My symptoms are that of a minor cold, which is no surprise, since a coronavirus is a type of cold.
  NPCs all the way up
 Ahem
Unless you’re on DMT
Laws of thermodynamics: 1. You can’t win 2. You can’t break even 3. You can’t stop playing
Shakes fist at entropy
 Big expansion of beta program in 6 to 8 weeks!
_nunez  Interesting. My Thursday night saliva sample came back today with N1 gene (unique to cov2) showing at cycle 26 &amp; N3 (generic sars) at 24. I get results of today’s test tomorrow. Almost no symptoms today, so hopefully better results.
_Enough  What’s honey?
 Feels that way
   This seems accurate
  Cold symptoms are gone for now 😀🚀💫
 There are degrees of pos
_H  _roi  Heneghan makes a lot of sense. Hilarious that he has to clarify that he runs the Center for *Evidence-Based* Medicine at Oxford 🤣🤣. General public doesn’t realize quite how much of medicine is subjective or outright witchcraft.
 The number of PCR amplification cycles required to detect the virus is a rough indicator of your viral load. From what I can gather, you’re probably not infectious above 30 &amp; you probably are below 25. Sound about right?
_H _roi  This a great reference! Worth a read.
Case closed  
Soon  
 Fwiw, lab I just spoke to thinks below 30 is accurate, 30 to 40 gets dicey &amp; above 40 is bs. Will talk to several more labs. There must be a graph of PCR amplification cycle vs false positive rate somewhere.
Lab I just spoke to said cov2 PCR detection (N1 &amp; N3 genes) below 30 cycles is reliable &amp; above 40 cycles is not
  Note, this is not the spike protein. They don’t consider that reliable.
  Just spoke directly to a testing lab. Their main PCR search is for the N1 gene, unique to cov2. N3 is also sought, but is generic to other sars viruses. High PCR cycle count *does* give false positives, but they believe accuracy is good below 30 cycles &amp; 40 cycles is their max.
 Strange
 Possible explanation for the dramatic decline in cold &amp; flu prevalence vs prior years. If someone comes in with cold/flu symptoms &amp; falsely tests positive for cov2, they will assume they have it, when in fact they simply have some other form of seasonal cold/flu.
 Moreover, lower the true prevalence, the higher the false positive number will be. This sounds obvious, but it could mean a very high false positive percentage if true prevalence is low.
 From    
_e_morgan Sure is
Would be great to hear from people who know a lot about the PCR testing industry. What’s the approximate false positive rate, all things considered, for cov2 PCR tests?
 Interesting
_beans  Interesting
What is the general population (no knowledge of symptoms) accuracy of a sars-cov2 PCR test &amp; is it possible to generate a false positive if you simply run enough cycles?
  A good PCR test should identify if I have the cov2 spike proteins, although I have heard some low accuracy numbers for those too. Hard to get a straight answer.   False positives will roughly scale with # of tests &amp; daily test rate has gone ballistic:  
  Mild sniffles &amp; cough &amp; slight fever past few days. Right now, no symptoms, although I did take NyQuil.
 Technically, I tested positive, then negative twice, then positive again, so “Elon Musk Tests Negative for Covid” is an equally correct title. The “rapid antigen test” from BD seems to be about as useful as a flipping a coin.
The carousel turns ever faster
  Yup
 Exactly
 Symptoms of a typical cold. Nothing unusual so far.
 If it’s happening to me, it’s happening to others. I’m getting PCR tests from separate labs. Results will take about 24 hours.
Something extremely bogus is going on. Was tested for covid four times today. Two tests came back negative, two came back positive. Same machine, same test, same nurse. Rapid antigen test from BD.
 Burst disk worked, so vehicle appears to be ok. We’ll have to swap out at least one of the engines.
   Maybe melted an engine preburner or fuel hot gas manifold. Whatever it is caused pneumatics loss. We need to design out this problem.
 We lost vehicle pneumatics. Reason unknown at present. Liquid oxygen header tank pressure is rising. Hopefully triggers burst disk to relieve pressure, otherwise it’s going to pop the cork.
 🤣🤣👍
4 Astronauts fly to _Station on Sat night from Cape. First operational flight of Crew Dragon.  
 Luck is the best superpower
 Yes
 It is an honor that they would choose to work with me. I strive to ensure that the companies enable creative &amp; driven people to reach their potential.
Such a privilege to work with people I like &amp; respect so much. I feel blessed.
      _Bass3d _Stanley   Probably
  Happy to see this :)
  I do expect this to become an important product for the world, but probably not financially material for Tesla
    _Bass3d _Stanley   There’s no entry/braking burn &amp; hypersonic angle of attack is ~70 degrees
  Tesla makes the RNA Bioreactor that can make vaccines / cures. CureVac has version 2 in use. Version 3 is under development.
 Checking
 I just hope this game doesn’t twist itself to tedium out of fear of being canceled

Yes, you can have my damn cookie! should be a browser setting
  Thanks to a lot of great Autopilot/AI hardware &amp; software engineers at Tesla!
 For sure
  Will be worth it
 Exactly
  Sure
 Actually, it’s still there  
_Spartan_117   Wait until you see what Cybertruck will do
 This is accidental. Will be back shortly.
  _Inc Am hoping to change booster design to land back on launch mount with no legs. Will require extreme precision.
  Chip has temp sensor &amp; automatically maintains safe temp
  _Inc Enough already on my plate &amp; Tesla’s. Maybe one day will do a prototype. Those are relatively easy. Volume production with high reliability &amp; low cost &amp; passing all regulations is 100X harder.
 Neuralink won’t overclock the brain, it will transfer processing to the supercomputer extension of your brain. This is basically what you do when you use a smartphone or computer, but a Neuralink will have orders of magnitude faster input &amp; output, especially latter.
   We rewrote all labeling software for 4D. Very different from labeling single photos. Dojo won’t contribute for about a year. It’s mostly a generalized NN training computer, but benchmark we’re tracking is frames/second. Must beat next gen GPU/TPU clusters or it’s pointless.
  Version 1 is about a year away
 _Inc It would appear that their calculations were incorrect
_Inc China understands the profound importance of reusability. The era of expendable rockets will soon be over.
 ♠️♠️ Tesla Autopilot/AI team ♠️♠️
 Good explanation. 4D is essential for dynamically occluded objects, especially in large intersections with dense vehicle &amp; pedestrian traffic. Frame rate &amp; latency from frame to wheel vector change also important.
The Phantom of the Opera  Is here … inside your mind
   🇨🇦 😀
 Just looking for problem-solvers who get things done with a high sense of urgency. Don’t care if or where they went to school.
When sending your resume, please describe a few of the hardest problems you solved &amp; exactly how you solved them
A New Banner is needed Neither hard left nor right
 Another fine day in the simulation …
 Faraday invented the electric motor, Tesla the (commutator-free, three-phase) AC induction motor, in other words, a useful electric motor
 Maxwell was amazing. Should have more recognition. Tesla Motors, Inc., was almost called Faraday, as it took until late 2004/2005 to buy the trademark from a guy who had had it since 1995.
420 is ten times better than 42
🤗
   Awaiting approval from Canadian authorities
Recruiting ace engineers for Giga Berlin! Will interview in person tomorrow on site. Send resume to 25Guns.com.
_Hurley   Stop being a chad
_Hurley   Uh … Chad wtf
 Einstein was great, but did not succeed at engineering (and he tried)
 Yeah, that will be relatively easy, as so few users out in the ocean
_Enough    Yes, although I didn’t expect the stock to rise so much so soon. The reason for the stock options is that they’re needed to help pay for humanity to get to Mars in 10 to 20 years.
  Super appreciate your support, Steve! That convertible loan gave us 6 months of runway. Fortunately, Daimler invested $50M in May 2009, 5 months later.
   Closest we got was about a month. The Model 3 ramp was extreme stress &amp; pain for a long time — from mid 2017 to mid 2019. Production &amp; logistics hell.
  I put in my last money, even though I thought we would still fail. But, it was either that or certain death for Tesla. Extremely difficult to raise money for an electric car startup (considered super quirky back then), while stalwarts like GM &amp; Chrysler were going bankrupt.
 That funding round completed 6pm on Christmas Eve in 2008. Last hour of last day possible, as investors were leaving town that night &amp; we were 3 days away from bankruptcy. I put in all money I had, didn’t own a house &amp; had to borrow money from friends to pay rent. Difficult time.
_bickett  Yes
 Lowering Starlink terminal cost, which may sound rather pedestrian, is actually our most difficult technical challenge
 As soon as we get regulatory approval. Hopefully, around middle of next year.
 Right now, it takes about 5 mins to set up, but, with future improvements, probably less than 3 mins. No technical knowledge needed. Just point at open sky &amp; plug in!
_arne  Canada and Norway are next after we get US out of early beta!
_nafnlaus  Didn’t realize that was possible. No problem if there’s a way get current design Cybertruck approved in Europe!
 As soon as we get country approval. This is required for each country individually, as no EU-wide approval system exists. Probably start receiving final (there are many steps) approvals around Feb/March.
_rassett Lower latitude states need more satellites in position, so probably January
Several thousand more Starlink beta participation invitations going out this week
 New design is better with many minor tweaks. Even the small details matter.
_feed Haha
Very close to actual expected flight!
_Lockyer I could not be more excited about the new supercollider! That said, while it is considerably larger, I don’t think it necessarily requires all that much incremental engineering.
        _average _ Sure, maybe in a month or so
       _average _ Well, it’s basically a tank from the future that’s road-legal, so yeah
      _average _ Tesla Texas team is making great progress! Giga Texas factory will be an asskicker.
 Yes
Penguin Random House 😴 should change the name to Random Penguin🔥
 Sure, although it might be quite a short livestream! Lot can go wrong, but we’ll provide video, warts &amp; all. You will see every frame that we do.
  This is what matters most
   We’ve tested a sub-scale version in a wind tunnel with active aero closing the loop for stability, so it will probably work at scale, but reality tends to bite you on the ass
   
 Lord of the …
    Yeah. Although, if it fails right at the end, some landing pad repair will be needed to fill in the crater.
   Minor
   Understanding exactly how the body flaps control pitch, yaw &amp; roll during descent, such that the ship is positioned well to relight, flip &amp; land, would be a big win
  But, a RUD right off launch pad is also possible. Fortunately, SN9 is almost ready.
  Stable, controlled descent with body flaps would be great. Transferring propellant feed from main to header tanks &amp; relight would be a major win.
   Every 5 to 10 days
   Faults will never be zero, but at some point the probability of a fault will be far lower than that of the average human
  We measure this primarily in intervention probability. This update addressed several issues, resulting in perhaps ~1/3 fewer interventions. Many of the improvements consist of fixing silly bugs vs grand eureka moments. True for most beta releases in my experience.
 Thanks to a great Autopilot/AI team working super hard!   Doing “neural nets” without testing them against reality has led some groups to overestimate what they’re doing. Reality is the hardest sim.
 Latency will improve significantly soon. Bandwidth too.
 This build should be noticeably better with interventions
   Yes
  I’ve spent more than half my life in California &amp; love the state. But, frankly, I think CA has the winning-for-too-long problem.   Like a sports team with many championships, it is increasingly difficult to avoid complacency &amp; a sense of entitlement.
 And … Sweden is still right with zero deaths Oct 29  
 True. Also, fewer heart attacks, as way easier to pump blood in 37% gravity.
  _feed Now we’re talking. Also, Stephenson 2-18 is in the constellation Scrotum haha.
_feed Small fry. The sun converts over 4 million tons of mass to energy every second.
 Accurate
    
  Some challenges with high winds. Looks like Sunday for static fire.
 Great shot!
  Future AI will appreciate this
 Truth is stranger than fiction
 😉
_sci Urf is so smōl
 For a long time
Truth be told, I’ve eaten at JitB many times over the years, even the teriyaki bowl
Might buy a Jack in the Box footstool
 Approximately, log(rate)
 Same bot, just change setting to “combat”
 Well, being a phased array antenna, it is actually rather flat!
Tesla should make 🔥 catgirl robots?
 Little crane: “Am I just a toy to you!?”
_ 🤣🤣
Come here … no, come, here 👇
Wow, this mayo sure is salty!
  Max Payne was great on many levels. Silent Hill good too.
Jack in the Box should do double duty as a sperm donor clinic — name is 👌
  One of the best games ever
  FEAR 1 with modern graphics &amp; sound would rock
  Ok :)
  All games in this thread are far scarier &amp; more creatively so than any horror movie
 FEAR 2 is best imo. Also Dead Space 2. They will haunt your dreams.
  
  To the best of my knowledge, literally zero equipment was usable without major repairs or upgrades.   Most of the factory had no equipment at all! Even light bulbs were missing in some areas.  GM &amp; Toyota took everything that worked &amp; moved it to their other factories.
 All that was left were broken bots &amp; equipment hardly worth the scrap metal value. But we scrounged up spare parts, fixed the trusty old bots &amp; brought the factory back to life.
 And there were actually zero employees in the factory after GM/Toyota left. They took all good equipment &amp; sold most of rest for scrap. It looked apocalyptic inside.
 Bettern nothin or ur 💰 back!
 💫 🛰
 Tesla team has done great work!
 Well, tbh, our capex efficiency in 2017 was trash 😬
 Testing for covid is a license to print money
  Yes, very helpful. Thanks all beta testers!
 Video training &amp; inference is essential for excellent autonomy
_feed Sigh … there should be a new supersonic jet, this time electric
 Critical to humanity’s future
Congratulations SpaceX Team!
 Mine is a few days ahead
_  Sure, it could be an option in settings
 Visualization will tone down significantly for production. These are intentionally strident colors.
    Sure
    I’m in Boca every week, so maybe we could talk then. Given that Starship is not exactly subtle, this is more of a design clarification to match what people can already see.
   Good point. Probably next week in form of a written piece on SpaceX website.
  Great pics! That we now have the beginnings of a Starship production system is most meaningful.
 Yup. With beta updates, there’ll be a lot of 2 steps fwd, 1 step back situations, but pace of improvement will be extremely fast.
_sanders Working on it. Also needs to be able fart at other cars on command.
 Starship is coming together!
Price change is pushed to Thursday next week. Applies only to US for now. One week clock will start in other countries as beta is released. FSD monthly rental will also be available sometime next year.
 There will be a 360 deg glass Star Bar (name tbd) at top of high bay
_Ryan Well, we have said many times that the price will rise as the product functionality improves. How much time do you think we should give?
 Agreed. Are these performance tires?
 Just a small-seeming issue with loss of upper stage camera. Probably nothing serious, but standing down to re-examine whole vehicle just in case.
 Sure
Now that Tesla FSD beta is out in limited release, FSD price (new or upgrade) will go up by ~$2k on Monday
   _raj As soon as we complete testing &amp; regulators approve. So many different traffic signs, rules &amp; languages around world, not to mention driving on left side of road! Also, a long &amp; challenging road lies ahead getting to high 9’s reliability (way beyond human).
  _raj Yes
 _raj Haha
 Dependent on proving high safety
 Not intentional! We just wanted to show that you could theoretically convert the entire US vehicle fleet to electric using only the lithium in Nevada, a single state. Tesla will do lithium mining only as needed. We also found a way to extract lithium using NaCl (table salt).
 Cold gas for now, hot later
 I mean, ya gotta have a tiki bar …
Starship nosecone, high bay &amp; tiki bar  
 …
 After it gets to orbit a few times
 Got a little melty tbh :)
 Those engines could go 300 bar, but would be dicey. Pushing it for near-term tests doesn’t achieve anything, but I’m confident Raptor will do 300 bar for orbital flights.
 Raptor has now run for 90 secs at 300 bar chamber pressure before encountering issues. 210 mT-F sea level operating thrust seems achievable with no major changes.   R-Boost variant is aiming for 300 ton thrust at 300 bar with same nozzle exit area. Will need bigger pumps.
FSD beta rollout happening tonight. Will be extremely slow &amp; cautious, as it should.
Data from 3 engine Starship static fire this morning looks good. Proceeding with nosecone mate.
  Yes. We also have to consider population life-months lost from lockdowns &amp; other restrictions vs life-months lost from any given disease.
 Sweden at zero deaths Oct 15  
_96 Yes
  Firmware is probably a slightly more accurate description, but yes
   Mobi-C has too much mobility, fusion has too little. We need Mobi-D haha.
  Actually, it’s my neck …  
  Maybe I can be helpful. Had Mobi-C disc put in at C5-C6, however 1st surgery failed to remove bone spur sticking into my spinal cord. 2nd surgery took care of it. Recommend using Yelp or other online reviews of doctors. Effectiveness varies widely.
 Pretty accurate. It’s not so much DNA sequencing as it is using synthetic DNA/RNA to fix bugs in our code &amp; inform immune system what to attack.
 London to Beijing would be cool
 Wow, that would be quite a trip!
 That’s my kid haha
møtør trèndé
 Looks like snoopy
_com Current production is slightly better
  Doesn’t seem to be any life in this solar system. Maybe under the ice of Europa or extremophile bacteria below the surface of Mars. Worth reading:  
 Very creative
 That free fusion reactor in the sky conveniently converts ~4 million tons of mass into energy every second. We just need to catch an extremely tiny amount of it to power all of civilization.
  You never know
 After
 😢
  Also, system should autodelete old data automatically by default
 Table in tension
 Yes
 Starting production on 7 seater next month, initial deliveries early December
The gauntlet has been thrown down!   The prophecy will be fulfilled.   Model S price changes to $69,420 tonight!
         More great renderings! Significant improvements coming to the welds.
  Congratulations!
 Making progress
9 meter or roughly 30 ft diameter
Will be less roomy with 3 vacuum rocket engines added  
     It’s still there, but focus is Vegas &amp; Prufrock, our new tunneling machine
    For sure
    Maybe a month or so. Some finishing touches need to be done on the stations.
   We simplified this a lot. It’s basically just Teslas in tunnels at this point, which is way more profound than it sounds.
 Sweet …
 Yes. Everything is slow to a phased array antenna.
 Nice
“What is love? Baby don’t hurt me.”— Winston Churchill
  Or maybe 2 weak turrets to allow more strategic degrees of freedom
  Please buff Torb’s turret!
 Um … yes
 I have Goosebumps 2 merch. Not sure how tbh.
 HG2G
 LotR
🤘 The Illuminaughty 🤘
         Knee deep
 Yeah
 At least success is in the set of all possible outcomes this time!
_at_life  Diess is doing his best to move in the right direction, but he’s in a tough position with so many constituencies to please. No way to make everyone happy.
 Good grief! SpaceX is getting zero money for this. Starship is designed to carry people &amp; cargo around Earth (also to moon &amp; Mars). Vast majority of use will be civilian. It’s just like an airline in space. All airlines sometimes carry military cargo, but ~99% is civilian.
 With FSD, we got stuck in a lot of local maximums, which wasn’t clear until we hit the ceiling. This time, it’s right.
  Thank you, much more accurate haha
 This graph appears to be upside down
 Sheer magnitude of the entire production system is hard to appreciate. Almost every element of production is &gt;75% automated. Only wire harnesses &amp; general assembly, which are &lt;10% of production costs, are primarily manual.
  Will release order configurator probably in Jan
 Limited FSD beta releasing on Tuesday next week, as promised. This will, at first, be limited to a small number of people who are expert &amp; careful drivers.
  The SoC’s sync with each other 20 to 30 times/sec, exchanging output of NNs that should be in harmony, like a symphony, so it’s fairly obvious when one is discordant
 Tesla FSD computer’s dual SoCs function like twin engines on planes — they each run different neural nets, so we do get full use of 144 TOPS, but there are enough nets running on each to allow the car to drive to safety if one SoC (or engine in this analogy) fails.
 Accurate analysis. Quite a few  ego/intelligence&gt;&gt;1 people in your comment thread haha. Neither MobilEye nor Nvidia, which are certainly good companies, could meet any of our capability, schedule, cost or power requirements.
  !
 _      Glad Jen is safe!
  Wow
 Uh ok, here we go …
 I don’t think this is accurate
       Yeah, there are literally &gt;1000% more cameras than 10 years ago, but still zero clear photos
_com Even if half that amount, it’s still a big deal!
_nafnlaus  🤣🤣
      I have seen no evidence of an advanced civilization visiting Earth. Fuzzy pics that are worse than a 7/11 security cam frame grab don’t count!
 We face a tough dichotomy of applying resources to the old architecture or applying them to the new. It’s not a question of money. If there was a “great engineer” factory, we would place a large order! Unfortunately, great engineers are very rare. This is solved in the FSD build.
 Definitely
_nafnlaus Exactly. He plays the “poor inventor” card, but was rich all along &amp; invented nothing (as far as I know). I went down to zero cash or sellable assets in 2008/2009, had no house &amp; had to borrow money from friends to pay rent.
_nafnlaus There are sketchy edits to Tesla wiki that whitewash Eberhard’s problems/glorify his role. Pretty odd. I was interim CEO/co-CEO from July 2007. Michael Marks was co-CEO for ~Q4 2007 &amp; Ze’ev Drori for Q1 to ~Q3 2008. After Q3 2008 financing round bust, no choice but to be CEO.
_nafnlaus When Eberhard was fired from the Tesla CEO role in mid 2007 for providing false information to me &amp; the board, no one left with him. That says it all.
 Interesting
    _Stanley    _Bass3d    SpaceX/Tesla metallurgy &amp; new materials team is next-level
  Probably
 I have that exact art on the wall of the place I stay in Boca Chica!
  Yes, failure to protect nursing homes was a major mistake (happened in most countries). Herd immunity for vast majority of people &amp; quarantine vulnerable was right though imo.
 Sweden was right  
    _Stanley    _Bass3d   There are sensitive elements, but they’re on the inside. Also, a good telephoto lens will be able to capture what I’ve posted. And yeah, anyone who can reverse engineer what I’ve posted doesn’t need to reverse engineer!
 Great work by SpaceX valve engineering &amp; production!
 _Stanley    _Bass3d   Our tiles are mechanically attached
  _Stanley    _Bass3d   It might be used in some areas. ITAR laws prevent us from being too specific about solutions.
 _Stanley    _Bass3d   Tiles will be on hot side of flaps too. A very tough problem is sealing the moving flap to body joint without melting or shredding the seal.
_AA_Carmack Compilers need to improve imo. Most type, pointer (or other memory) problems can be detected at compile time or disambiguated by asking the user.
  I’m proud to say that that nose is pointier than it needs to be haha
     Norway leads the world
 Passed cryo proof
   👍
 Yeah, it’s not a contest. Advanced casting crushes best-case 3D printing, but casting doesn’t work well for complex enclosed volumes &amp; high strength or high temp alloys.
_FarmerBob _Pettit   Great pics!
    Maybe this should be the flag of Mars
 Additive manufacturing of parts is still far too costly for cars, but can rapidly create tooling to accelerate pace of innovation.   It’s already sensible for rocket engine parts. To the best of our knowledge, SpaceX is 2 or 3 years ahead of other companies in use of additive.
    Pretty much, but I think it may end on a high note
  Meant to say that it should be fixed in the latest wide release. Won’t need to wait for FSD.
  It should be
   Exactly. We barked up that tree for way too long (sigh). Gives a false sense of victory being close — a tantalizing local maximum — but reality is just too messy &amp; weird. Our new system is capable of driving in locations we never seen even once.
   Yes, we will play sexy snake jazz 🤣
   Yes
  Yeah, provided we do our metal gear snake autocoupler
 Waymo is impressive, but a highly specialized solution. The Tesla approach is a general solution. The latest build is capable of zero intervention drives. Will release limited beta in a few weeks.
  Yeah, we could put in a setting allowing it to drop as low as 5%
     Great render. Note, there will need to be an arm that lifts booster to launch stand &amp; ship to booster.
 Mimecraft
  Yes
_Enough  Autopilot team is making great progress. Reality sure is complicated!
     Aspiring to have no flame diverter in Boca, but this could turn out to be a mistake
     We do have giant steel balls haha
 We just completed a financing round, but will let you know when there is another one
 _avoigt _zimon  I definitely need to try these tasty cakes &amp; pastries on my next visit!
    Mass ratio. Liquid oxygen is much denser than liquid methane, even when the latter is cooled to just above its freezing point.
 _avoigt _zimon  Had the most amazing kebab ever just outside of Tacheles. Too bad that place got torn down. It was awesome.
 _avoigt _zimon  döner kebab
   You’re most welcome!
   High bay should be finished (except for the giant gantry crane) within a few weeks. Super Heavy stacking should begin around then.
_avoigt _zimon  That looks tasty!
    The crash absorption rails can be cut off &amp; replaced with a bolted part for collision repair
_Enough  Sandy Munro understands engineering
    That would be like licensing Battlestar Galactica. Actually building continuously evolving gargantuan factories is the hard part. Lots of people who worked at Tesla Gigafactories now work at competitors, but none of those companies have made one.
   Yes, the Gigafactory is the hardest &amp; most critical product
   Battery pack will be a bonded structure with cells providing shear transfer between steel upper &amp; lower face sheets, eliminating most of the center body parts while providing better torsional rigidity &amp; improved polar moment or inertia. This is a *major* breakthrough.
  But now we understand production much better. It will be our primary competitive advantage long-term.
  Even GM &amp; Chrysler went bankrupt in 2009. Ford and Tesla are the only US car companies that have avoided bankruptcy.
  The Model 3 production ramp was sheer agony for two years, but that was do or die for Tesla. No US car company has reached high volume production with sustained free cash flow in ~100 years. Hundreds of car startups all died or were absorbed for peanuts by big three.
  Bringing a new product to volume production is 1% inspiration &amp; 99% perspiration. You do still need that critical seed of inspiration, but it’s fun &amp; takes ~100 people. Production takes &gt;10,000 people &amp; hurts like hell until the gigantic cybernetic collective runs smoothly.
 Marginal cost of Starship mass to orbit should be well under $100/kg. Fully burdened cost depends on flight rate.
 Prototypes are a piece of cake, but high volume production of a new technology is extremely hard. Takes much longer than people think to climb the production S-curve. I can’t emphasize enough that production is by *far* the hard part.
 We do expect to make heavy use of LFP for medium range cars &amp; stationary storage
 Berlin will use 4680 cell with structural battery pack &amp; front &amp; rear single piece castings. Also, a new paint system.   Lot of new technology will happen in Berlin, which means significant production risk. Fremont &amp; Shanghai will transition in ~2 years when new tech is proven.
  They are
 I do so wish that more companies would put down their spreadsheets for a moment and focus on making products that move your heart
 _ua    _Seeley 7 bar absolute, which is fine for flight. This was a proof test, rather than a burst test. We’ll hopefully fix the leak today &amp; retest.
_ua    _Seeley Cryo pressure test succeeded, but a small leak opened up near the engine mounts, possibly due to differential shrinking
   _Seeley One of the best shots ever!
  Much sooner
    Great photo!
  It will soon
 Once these satellites reach their target position, we will be able to roll out a fairly wide public beta in northern US &amp; hopefully southern Canada. Other countries to follow as soon as we receive regulatory approval.
  We’re not seeing notable differences yet. I think the boosters could probably do 100+ reflights. Some of the (small) composite helium tanks would need to be replaced. Maybe turbopump hot sections.
  Roughly a week or two turnaround is all that’s needed to meet max launch demand. Starship Super Heavy is designed for reflight in less than an hour.
 Ahem, yes, it was the 3rd flight of this booster &amp; 3rd flight for active half of fairing. Aiming for 10+ flights of booster &amp; fairing by end of next year.
4th flight &amp; landing for this booster
5 minutes from launch. Looks good so far.
 So crazy to subsidize pollution! This is not good for people, especially in dense cities with heavy traffic, where your air intake is jammed up against another car’s exhaust pipe.
 It’s a step in the right direction, but they should really aim for full reusability by 2026. Larger rocket would also make sense for literal economies of scale. Goal should be to minimize cost per useful ton to orbit or it will at best serve a niche market.
Turn volume to 11 &amp; play Powerglide in your Tesla    
 FSD will solve these issues
Music volume on a Tesla goes to 11, because it’s louder than 10   
  One of my favorite writers. Foundation is tough to make into a movie, but has outstanding potential.
 💯
  
Rewatched Young Frankenstein this weekend. Still awesome. Ovaltine?  
 The remake has the potential to be great. I kinda liked the original tbh, but it’s possible to take it up a level.
Hollywood should just start with the sequel &amp; skip the original, because financials
 This article is wildly incorrect about lithium battery costs by a factor of 5 or more presently &amp; 10X long-term
       Pretty wild, considering that Exxon was the most valuable company in the word when we went public 10 years ago
New SpaceX droneship will be called “A Shortfall of Gravitas”
Nothing can escape gravity, not even black holes (and they really tried!)
_AA_Carmack Would be cool to put yourself in the mind of the car while it’s driving
 Coming soon
Call of Booty, great game

  Vector-space bird’s eye view coming with FSD
  Unexpected pressure rise in the turbomachinery gas generator
  All of that and more. We’re doing a broad review of launch site, propulsion, structures, avionics, range &amp; regulatory constraints this weekend. I will also be at the Cape next week to review hardware in person.
  Exactly
 We will need to make a lot of improvements to have a chance of completing 48 launches next year!
 I agree with Lex
    Glad you’re ok!
  Haha
    Thanks for waiting!
   Next year for sure
   _M_Brown       Oh yeah, Starship update coming in about 3 weeks. The design has coalesced. What is presented will actually be what flies to orbit as V1.0 with almost no changes.
  _M_Brown       High frequency lasers are the way to go for sure
 _M_Brown        Great
_M_Brown        Brownsville is quite far south, so probably 3 months or so for good connectivity — needs several more Starlink launches. I’m using it at the little house I rent in the area. Definitely not good there yet.
      Average latency will improve as more satellites launch (directly above you more frequently) &amp; more ground stations are deployed. As we’re able to put more ground stations on roofs of server centers, legacy Internet latency will be zero.
        Very soon for higher latitudes like Seattle
       Yes, Starlink is designed to enable competitive gaming
     Probably 5 or 6 with an optimized tanker, although filling up the ship in orbit isn’t required for Mars, so 4 is possible
     Starlink will be a revolution in connectivity, especially for remote regions or for emergency services when landlines are damaged
  Yeah
     Great letter! It will be increasingly difficult to see Starlink satellites, as we’re actively working with the astronomer community to ensure that even the most sensitive telescopes are fine &amp; scientific progress is not impeded.
    The ship rings are thicker than they need to be (for now), so same thickness works for booster &amp; ship for hoop stress. Booster lower tank will have longitudinal stiffeners to prevent buckling.
 It’s next-level
 💰💩🤣
   Glad to hear your Mom is ok
     Good to see. Inspiring for future of space!
_teslagirl   _energy _Plasma  The new heat pump in Model Y is what really makes the difference in cold weather
   _energy _Plasma  Yes, coming soon
      Great render! The circumferential welds &amp; skin panels will be much smoother in future builds.
  _energy _Plasma  That’s very hard to do. Have you tried pushing on the charge port door to open? It’s designed to support a manual press to open as well as automatic.
 _energy _Plasma  It’s cool &amp; for sure can &amp; should be done, but I suspect its best case will be more costly than wind &amp; solar (aka big fusion reactor in sky)
 Weld esthetics will improve greatly in upcoming Starships
 Haha true. Why do showers have such a wide range!?
 !!
  Yes
  Light is not as fast as you’d think
 Maybe we used too many magenta spotlights
  Having a low center of gravity makes a world of difference to safety
_one1   We will probably IPO Starlink, but only several years in the future when revenue growth is smooth &amp; predictable. Public market does *not* like erratic cash flow haha. I’m a huge fan of small retail investors. Will make sure they get top priority. You can hold me to it.
   Fate loooves irony haha
  Glad SpaceX could help! We are prioritizing emergency responders &amp; locations with no Internet connectivity at all.
 True
 That’s total market, not all Tesla. We do see Tesla reaching 20M vehicles/year probably before 2030, but that requires consistently excellent execution.
   Total market
  Seven years for sure to 30M+ new fully electric vehicles per year, six years maybe. Five years is possible, but unlikely. An extra year makes a giant difference when it comes to exponentials.
  Both will do original cars
 We aren’t cutting the price of Model 3 to $25k. I was referring to a future car that will be smaller than Model 3.
_heide  What about a heavy duty, paintball machine gun mounted on the bed rails?
 _kerle New version coming soon
 Suppliers. We’re only doing high energy nickel ourselves, at least for now. Also, maybe the presentation wasn’t clear that we’ve actually had our cells in packs driving cars for several months. Prototypes are trivial, volume production is hard.

  _ev @_TeslaTom   _outback         If it passes Australian regulations, then sure
 🤣🤣
  Checking into it
 Totally up to you, but if you head to a Tesla delivery center near you &amp; maybe help out new owners, that would be cool
_AA_Carmack Completely agree
 Yes, the flaps are now directly driven by electric motors with a gearbox! No more hydraulics.
Thanks Tesla Team for great work on deliveries! For new owners, we super appreciate accommodating us on delivery timing! Definitely one of our toughest quarters in global logistics.
 There are times when I feel like I’m living in a Dilbert cartoon
 That species has stood the test of time
    Mostly 304L, some 301. Broke at 301 to 304 interface. SN9 will be all 304. Also, we’re making some tweaks to the 304 alloy mixture.
   8 bar differential in ullage, 9 bar at base due to propellant head. It’s enough. Improvements in work.
 We just need enough height to test body flaps &amp; drawing propellant from headers vs main tanks. Will do several flights to confirm working well, then add heat shield &amp; go high Mach.
First flight is to 15km or ~50,000 ft
Nosecone &amp; front flaps next week. SN9 next month.
Starship SN8 with rear body flaps  
  
 Sure
 True
  Not bad
_nafnlaus  Exactly
  Sandy Munro understands engineering
 Turns out they mostly press the letter s &amp; 💩 on the typewriter 🤣  
Centaur with a bow obviously  
  Haha
 Something like this  
 Can’t support 3 wheel vehicles. Not safe enough.
 ~9007mm
 Something appealing about Hawking/Hartle idea, but I agree with Turok/Feldbrugge/Lehners
 🖤 ur algo
  True
  There are some practical size constraints too. Can’t be too big to fit in the engine compartment. But, it could be a little bigger. 380 sec Isp would be nice.
  Doesn’t seem to be a problem. We could probably increase area ratio, given 330 bar max demonstrated chamber pressure.
  
 Preburners ignite, then main chamber
 Where is our prediction of probability inaccurate?
 Or energy &amp; time, but besides that what?
 Genetic engineering is too slow unless you use a synthetic virus
What can’t we predict?
  Yeah, but might not need it
 107 expansion ratio. You can a little bit of flow separation towards the end of the nozzle.
Only thing beyond ludicrous is plaid  
_aw  This does seem like the opposite of open. OpenAI is essentially captured by Microsoft.
 Haha true
 Maybe I will …
  Jets are so cool
   Pretty much
   Yes
  Yahoo Finance is as dumb as it sounds
_Enough Yes
  Haha
  Roadster will be better
 Probably
Cybertruck, ATV, Roadster &amp; Semi C A R S  
  Thanks for your many years of support through very tough times!
_Enough  We will be a little below that this year (most challenging year we’ve ever had), but probably above that next few years
 That’s about right. Maybe a little faster.
 Yes
 cgi irl
   Haha
The extreme difficulty of scaling production of new technology is not well understood. It’s 1000% to 10,000% harder than making a few prototypes. The machine that makes the machine is vastly harder than the machine itself.
  Haha
We intend to increase, not reduce battery cell purchases from Panasonic, LG &amp; CATL (possibly other partners too). However, even with our cell suppliers going at maximum speed, we still foresee significant shortages in 2022 &amp; beyond unless we also take action ourselves.
Important note about Tesla Battery Day unveil tomorrow. This affects long-term production, especially Semi, Cybertruck &amp; Roadster, but what we announce will not reach serious high-volume production until 2022.
 Thanks!
   We really need better legs for Starship. They’re coming.
   Most likely, all flaps will fold after landing to reduce wind tip over force. There may be some cases where flaps deployed help stability (change in wind direction), in which case one or more flaps will extend.
 Fine, we’ll do it already 😀
  Good analysis, although I think we should wait until FSD is a bit more mature
__surfer I’m pretty sure Tesla could do a much better autocorrect. The bar is so low haha.
 _Fot_Pik  _AA_Carmack True
  _AA_Carmack Custom ultra high speed bus &amp; efficient cooling
   _AA_Carmack Ok
  _AA_Carmack Pretty much any machine-learning
  _AA_Carmack It’s big
_Fot_Pik  _AA_Carmack Sure
 _AA_Carmack Yeah, we will open Dojo for training as a web service once we work out the bugs
 _AA_Carmack There are a lot of pointless zeroes in FP32 neural nets. You can chop off 16 of the 32 bits without losing meaningful precision. This works well with neural nets, but not with regular computing, which expects extreme precision.
 _AA_Carmack Dojo uses our own chips &amp; a computer architecture optimized for neural net training, not a GPU cluster. Could be wrong, but I think it will be best in world.
 _AA_Carmack  You really want waypoints this much?
_AA_Carmack For Dojo, we’re betting on FP16 with floating floating point (essentially, truncating mostly zeroes), so it feels like FP32 &amp; existing software just works. We considered FP8 for a while, but everyone hated it. I even asked Twitter! For inference, int8 works great.
 Yes
  Yes
 There’ll be lots of green space around factory, but building itself is continuous. The “open” areas inside are covered. They’re internal semi truck roads inside a giant monolithic building.
  Shaped like a diamond &amp; aligned on true north
A prior track record of exceptional achievement in engineering *is* required, but *no* prior experience working on the brain or human physiology is required. We will teach you what’s known about the brain, which is not much tbh.
If you feel Neuralink might have incorrectly overlooked your resume or declined to  make an offer, please lmk in comment below
   Felt I had done enough on the Internet (Zip2 &amp; PayPal) that my work would be useful to others. Needed to get going on accelerating sustainable energy &amp; making life multiplanetary.
  It took an utterly insane amount of work to move the SpaceX &amp; Tesla success probabilities above ~zero
 To be frank, in the early days, I thought there was &gt;90% chance that both SpaceX &amp; Tesla would be worth $0. The press &amp; aerospace / automotive industry at the time (correctly) agreed with me.
 Irrational is such a funny word to describe numbers
of course I still love you
  Sure, but which planet?
 Good movie
 Current was too strong for droneship to hold station. Thrusters to be upgraded for future missions.
 Lot has happened in 13 years
 It will be very insane
Speedrunning Factorio in real life …
 No, but you make some great points. Important to note that iron’s cost advantage is partly offset by increased pack mass, so the fully considered cost is closer to nickel. That said, iron alleviates much of the scaling problem.
   Yup
Fallout Shelter is on your Tesla. Tap the Entertainment button.
  Implicit conflation of consumption &amp; capital allocation is the foundational error
 Great idea!
🖤 Fallout Radio  🖤  
 There are some eerie parallels between The Boring Company &amp; Vault-Tec. We also built our first demonstration tunnel/vault in LA.
Doubles as an underground nuclear shelter 😀👍  
  Yeah
 _AA_Carmack  Should be happening soon
_AA_Carmack  A bit more obscure, but Starhammer &amp; Stainless Steel Rat
_feed At first, I thought that was a parrot
  They remind me of these guys  
Story of my life

Tunnels under cities with self-driving electric cars will feel like warp drive  First operational tunnel under Vegas almost done  The 
 For sure
  Good point
Have you hugged a tunnel today?
  Good analysis
 Exactly
 Gary the snail is still winning, but we’re gaining on him/her
Embrace tunnels!
 Tunnels are the solution to traffic. You can have as many levels as you want. Usable tunnel depth far exceeds tallest buildings, so would work even for New York or Beijing.
  Just a guess, but probably mid teens. Booster &amp; stacking on orbital pad are likely limiting factors. We’ll build several ships just to improve the production system.
 Pretty accurate simulation, although SN8 will use 3 Raptors. If SN8 craters, SN9 &amp; SN10 are close behind. High production rate allows for fast iteration.
 Couldn’t agree more — major software improvements are already in place to extend its life &amp; more coming
 Definitely not. Smartwatches &amp; phones are yesterday’s technology, Neuralinks are the future.
_feed Seems like they should make a whole outfit out of that material
 Ancient Greece had it all &amp; then committed suicide. Nobody digs your grave better than yourself.
  True
 The LEGO Movie was awesome
 The Story of Civilization. First book is a little dry, but second book, The Life of Greece, is incredible.  
 I’m wearing your F-1 engine shirt right now!
 @_rykllan     Cumulative mass to orbit per year (corrected for GTO &amp; other high energy orbits) is the best comparative metric imo
 @_rykllan     That’s the number that really matters
@_rykllan     Anyone tracking tonnage to orbit per year for all launch vehicles?
One way or another, excitement guaranteed! Support of greater Boca, Padre, Brownsville community is very much appreciated.
SN8 Starship with flaps &amp; nosecone should be done in about a week. Then static fire, checkouts, static fire, fly to 60,000 ft &amp; back.
   Can someone do a boat service from South Padre to Boca?
   Exactly. Problems like that have been addressed.
  Yes. Good insight.
  All frames stitched to single frame (tricky, as all cameras overlap in different ways) &amp; then creating video segments for labeling &amp; training. Everything from the labeling tools themselves to training to inference had to be rewritten.
   Much
  Yes
  Releasing private beta in 2 to 4 weeks, public beta (early access owners who opt in) 4 to 6 weeks after that, then all US Tesla owners mid December. Above schedule is contingent upon not encountering major unexpected setbacks.
 And this still isn’t using the dramatically better “4D” (aka simultaneous surround video from 8 cameras) architecture
_Bass3d   Cool
 He has no clue
 Sorry to hear that. I’m sure you’ll figure it out though. Took us four launches to reach orbit. Rockets are hard.
Many exciting things will be unveiled on Battery Day 9/22 ⚡️
 We will make super efficient home hvac with hepa filters one day
  If Reich actually cares about global warming, why is he making so much hot air!?
 🇩🇪 Natürlich 🇩🇪
Bitte arbeiten Sie bei Tesla Giga Berlin! Es wird super Spaß machen!!
 Try a Tesla &amp; you’re welcome to give it back if you decide you prefer a Subaru
 Vera Rubin Observatory is cool
   1+1=2
  Munger is right
   
 Black-Scholes formula is kinda bs. Big difference between a finance approximation &amp; fundamental physics / pure math.
 True
 Tesla is best understood as a collection of about a dozen startups, mostly in series, increasingly in parallel. Every product line &amp; new production system was invented. Instead of playing chess with the same pieces as everyone else, create new pieces.
 Tesla R&amp;D productivity is exceptionally good due to the caliber of engineering talent
Tesla Model S &amp; X have hospital-grade (HEPA) air filters. 3 &amp; Y are really good too. This has a big effect on health.  
_FilmReview !
  Touché
 All Tesla workers also get stock, so their compensation increased proportionately. You are a modern day moron.
   Yup
 13
 Rawlinson didn’t design Model S. Prototype was done before he joined &amp; he left us in the lurch just as things got tough, which was not cool. He did make some contributions to body/chassis engineering, but not to powertrain, battery, electronics or software.
   We’re pretty close to the manufacturing size limit for a milled copper &amp; steel jacket nozzle. Lot of complexity to add a nozzle extension to a sea level engine for small gain. Also hard to fit bigger engine nozzles on the booster.
A la guerre comme à la guerre
 Haha
 And starts tweeting
If you bombard Earth with enough photons, eventually it emits a Tesla (AK)
_AA_Carmack There is already bidirectional communication between human &amp; AI via phones &amp; computers. It’s just lossy &amp; very slow (especially output)
   Above 50% likely to make it
  This is a test engine. Flight articles are fixed with no gimbal.
 Worth noting that thrust is only slightly higher with the big bell nozzle version. Larger bell is primarily for efficiency in vacuum. Aiming for 380+ sec Isp for RVac long-term. Initially likely to be ~372.
_com Yes
 Chart understates lithium-ion potential by roughly 1/3
Model 3 rated as most reliable car
Turns out you can make anything fly haha
  Exactly. This is not fully appreciated.
 Starship SN6 flew asimilar hop to SN5, but it was a much smoother &amp; faster operation
🇩🇪🖤Giga Berlin Mannschaft🖤🇩🇪 Vielen Dank für Ihre hervorragende Arbeit an Giga Berlin!!  
Great trip to Germany. Support from government &amp; people is super appreciated!
_boutall  🤣🤣
  Trust ur butt haha
 An AI with 🍓 picking as its goal will result in Strawberry Fields Forever
 _mit     Over time, outer 20 will have ~300 tons of thrust &amp; inner 8 ~210, so roughly 7500 tons total at sea level or 1.5 T/W for booster+ship
 _mit     Yeah
_Alarms Just go through resonant modes fast. It’s when you hang out there that problems arise.
_mit     The outer ring of booster engines (20 of 28) have no TVC actuators. Steering control comes from center 8 TVC &amp; differential throttle of outer engines. By any measure, the high thrust variant of Raptor will probably have the high T/W of any engine ever.
   Videodrome
   
   
  Sorry, sir I think I have momentinertiaphobia
   Yeah
 _Lockyer   LHC tbh

_Lockyer   If you ever want to build a long accelerator tunnel, straight or circular, I know some people …
 Cool
_Lockyer   Physics is the law, everything else is a recommendation
  If some company has solved a useful thing that we can just buy, that would be great! It’s so much work to create our own tech. We develop new tech, because we have to, not because we want to.
 Tesla Germany designed &amp; built the vaccine RNA printers for CureVac, but, subject to some CureVac IP, they could be made for other companies too
_feed Technically, James Watt measured a pony, added 50% &amp; rounded up haha  
  Also, Critical Thinking
  Alexander and the Rise of Hellenism and Film Studies
 Wow, I super loved astronomy (but took it at Queens, not Penn)! Definitely one of my favorite classes. Senior year quantum mechanics at Penn was the hardest class I ever took. That stuff will mess with your mind.
  Yeah, he sent it to me through a mutual physics prof friend at Caltech/CERN. Very basic stuff.  
 It’s too embarrassing
Just learned that my physics prof from Penn is head of Fermilab &amp; still has some of my old homework ☺️
 It is unfortunately common for many in academia to overweight the value of ideas &amp; underweight bringing them to fruition. For example, the idea of going to the moon is trivial, but going to the moon is hard.
_vaux    People are extremely unlikely to die of Covid/sars-cov2 alone. If you have multiple pre-existing health conditions &amp; a weak immune system, then you have significant mortality risk from many diseases (not just Covid/sars-cov2) that would otherwise have minor effect.
    That &amp; Giga Berlin are why I’m headed to Germany this week. Conversations with Harvard epidemiology confirmed that a high-speed RNA printer has potential be helpful for vaccines &amp; cures in many areas.
  Antibody half-life for cov2 is very short. In a study that SpaceX did working with Harvard epidemiology, it appears to be as low as 2 or 3 weeks. Nonetheless, reinfection rates are very low &amp; symptoms are minor, perhaps due to memory T cells  
   Yeah
   One person at Tesla (out of 60,000) was hospitalized in serious condition (he caught cov2 at home, not work), no deaths. I called his wife &amp; Hayward hospital to make sure he was getting the right treatment, but which he was.
  Some of the tests we initially tried at Tesla were ~50% false positive, including some from major medical device companies. Too many testing methods were approved too quickly. Wouldn’t blame the FDA, though. Public was demanding fast test approval.
        _NSF  Not yet
       _NSF  Yes. This is the hardest part of the booster design.
_Enough People read too much into this level of detail. It’s not useful for predicting the future, nor can we ourselves accurately predict what issues we will encounter on a short-term, fine-grained level.
_Enough Critical feedback is always appreciated btw
  _com  We can’t have a blanket pass, but maybe for some events
       _NSF  Booster design has shifted to four legs with a wider stance (to avoid engine plume impingement in vacuum), rather than six
  _AA_Carmack Later versions of a larger device would have that potential
  Yup
 _AA_Carmack Actually C, although the syntax could be improved esthetically
_AA_Carmack I like C, because it avoids class warfare
   A nightcap would probably work best
  Pretty much
_com Good summary
Conceptual telepathy
Ahem … starting soon
“All of physics is either impossible or trivial. It is impossible until you understand it, and then it becomes trivial.” E Rutherford
 Giant gap between experimental medical device for use only in patients with extreme medical problems &amp; widespread consumer use. This is way harder than making a small number of prototypes.
    Testing with shorter RVac skirt went well. Full length skirt test coming soon.
Neuralink product demo in 3 hours. Webcast at  
   Raptor reached 230 mT-F (over half a million pounds of thrust) at peak pressure with some damage, so this version of the engine can probably sustain ~210 tons. Should have a 250+ ton engine in about 6 to 9 months. Target for booster is 7500 tons (16.5 million pounds) of thrust.
 Good chance something will slip, but, yeah, Sunday is intense
   Only need 2 engines
   Boring Co tunnel in Vegas is only a few months from being operational
  Neuralink this month &amp; Tesla next month, SpaceX probably October. We will have made a lot of progress by then. Might have a prototype booster hop done by then.
  Soon
 They’re quite accurate!
 That number sure comes up a lot 🤣🤣
  I’m fine with reasonable drone footage. Just needs to be at a fair distance &amp; not coming right up to people. I think our security was a little overzealous in this case.
  Thanks to a smart and hardworking team at Tesla. These sure are wild times …
 Much appreciated. This was a serious attack.
  Brave Starhopper carried the day
 Only so many days   
 We were too obtuse for our own good, although I think it works esthetically. Those are folded-over current collectors at the top/bottom of the cell, which are important, but I don’t want to jump the gun on Sept 22 …
 But actually nothing. Was surprised to hear they’re across the road. Adding silicon to carbon anode makes sense. We already do. Question is just what ratio of silicon to carbon &amp; what shape? Silicon expands like crazy during discharge &amp; comes apart, so cycle life is usually bad.
 Nothing 👀
 Then they leave the house and hardly ever call their parents!
The Big Bang started very, very smōl    
 Asimov was 🔥🔥
Should we believe things proportionate to the evidence that they are true? (yes)
Olde skoole analog synthesizer from ancient Britain  
  
  Was just there &amp; weather was calm. Sure hope it stays that way!
 Tesla brake lights are powered by a miniverse inside a microverse  
 Exactly
  No, we’re focused on developing new products &amp; scaling production
  Yes, will show V2. Still far from LASIK, but could get pretty close in a few years.
Lengthy background on Neuralink by   
Live webcast of working  device Friday 3pm Pacific
_feed Astronaughty
_    _sci No
   _sci Mars is easier than the moon for propellant production. Could get going with only one ship, where the ship itself is the propellant plant. Needs to make ~2 tons/day.
  _sci Starship propellant is ~78% oxygen, so an O2 plant on the moon would be enough. Otherwise, we could brute-force it with tankers to low Earth orbit. That’s probably faster.
 Now I want candy
 _sci There’s a lot of frozen CO2 &amp; H2O on Mars. Heating the planet will densify the atmosphere. It’s solvable.
_sci Perhaps one day there will be an ocean on the northern part of Mars
   It’s almost working reliably
  Very different computers are needed for training vs inference. FSD is mostly Int8, but Dojo is de facto FP32 (feels like FP32, but actually FP16 with boring bits truncated) so we don’t need to rewrite all the training software. It should work almost immediately.
  Not exactly GPUs for NN. Lots of cores optimized for dot products with fast local memory &amp; super high bandwidth between cores &amp; efficient liquid cooling. Compiler needs to be optimized too.
_addicted  No &amp; not possible at this scale
 Orbital launch mount
 Yeah. Occasional flights from land are ok, but frequent (daily) flights probably need ~30km / 18 miles clear area for noise.
  Sure
 On it
 I tried to warn them, but they just dug their own grave twice as fast!
 400 Wh/kg *with* high cycle life, produced in volume (not just a lab) is not far. Probably 3 to 4 years.
 Starship/Super Heavy, which is ~10X mass of Zenit, will mostly launch from ocean spaceports long-term
    Starship/Super Heavy is ~10X bigger in mass &amp; volume
A metaphor for life  
_com Accurate distance calculation using only vision is fundamental. Other sensors can help, but are not fundamental.
 Uh oh
More fun games coming soon to ur Tesla
 strikes again!
 Sorry, noise reduction has gotten much better recently &amp; will continue to improve
_Kolz09 🤣
 Hardcore techno, aber vielleicht ein bisschen Fahrstuhlmusik auf der Toilette
New Tesla feature coming that enables your car to play snake jazz or Polynesian elevator music through its outside speakers wherever you go

  Hopefully, we have achieved AI symbiosis by then
 Or a self-perpetuating autocracy based on a farcical aquatic ceremony where the king is chosen by a wise panzer in a lake
 Direct democracy. Short, comprehensible laws voted on directly by the people.  Snake Jazz.
🐍🎷
 It’s quite hard for us to write the software needed to cover basic car functionality, but maybe we could do something of this nature
GPT-3 sounds like Simon &amp; Garfunkel lyrics
Bureaucracy is inherently kafkaesque
_com Dankeschön Brandenburg &amp; Grünheide!
  True 🤣🤣
       👆
Medical check is A-ok!  
He might run for President in 2024  
  Not having long chain hydrocarbons &amp; lowering preburner combustion temperature make a big difference
  _ai _com Yes
  _ai _com Yes
  _ai _com Absolutely needs liquid cooling. We’re applying our experience cooling half megawatt drive unit power electronics in cars to computers.
 That’s an error in Canada. The lease payment is specifically lower than loan financing, as Tesla expects to repossess the car. This is essentially a bet on residual value. If you believe residual value will rise, buy on loan, if you think it will drop, then lease.
   We will push for ten flights with Starlink
   Almost never need to replace whole engine, but some individual parts like turbine wheels need to be replaced over time. Similar to a jet engine.
   Mostly for employees, but we’ll support public access whenever it’s safe &amp; secure. Public support is critical to making life multiplanetary.
   Absolutely 😃 🏝
  I don’t want be cavalier, but there isn’t an obvious limit. 100+ flights are possible. Some parts will need to be replaced or upgraded. Cleaning all 9 Merlin turbines is difficult. Raptor is way easier in this regard, despite being a far more complex engine.
  I’ve been working in Boca since Sunday. August heat &amp; humidity in South Texas is intense! If you think of it like a tropical resort, that makes it better though.
 _ai _com Dojo V1.0 isn’t done yet. About a year away. Not just about the chips. Power &amp; cooling problem is hard.
_stve Scorcher VI  
  _Bass3d   Yes
Elevator music is underrated
 _Bass3d   It’s counter-intuitive, but Raptor has so much thrust at high Isp with liquid (high density) propellant &amp; pump-fed (light tanks), that it beats hot gas for the flip. That said, hot gas beats the heck out of N2 for orbital manuevers &amp; stabilizing ship if landing in high winds!
 Payload reduction due to reusability of booster &amp; fairing is &lt;40% for F9 &amp; recovery &amp; refurb is &lt;10%, so you’re roughly even with 2 flights, definitely ahead with 3
    Yes, it will have huge nuts haha
 We really need a bigger one, so adults can squeeze in too. Guaranteed to make a party more fun. Works well with flamethrowers!
   My favorite is one in tension, other DoF in compression. New Roadster wheels will only have one nut.
 Yes
Aloha, welcome back from space 💫  
 Yeah, will post shortly
_mitka  Winning “worst person I’ve ever worked with” is not easy. Some real champions are vying for that title!
Fairing chute control &amp; ship control are closing the loop locally. Both operating on (SpaceX) autopilot.
Ms Tree catches fairing in her net  
 😐
  Up there somewhere, cruising through deep space  
 Must be aliens
 Yes
   This little spit of dirt will take us to Mars
 Humans are swiftly becoming a small percentage of total compute
  Max demonstrated Raptor thrust is ~225 tons &amp; min is ~90 tons, so they’re actually quite similar. Both Merlin &amp; Raptor could throttle way lower with added design complexity. Raptor preburner &amp; Merlin gas generator flameout are what limit lower bound.
  💨
  That’s engine SN. We’re building SN8 of the ship.
 SN40 is about to be tested &amp; has several upgrades over 330 bar engine. For reference, 330 bar on Raptor produces ~225 tons (half a million pounds) of force.
Raptor engine just reached 330 bar chamber pressure without exploding!  
 Yeah, Starship will be a tiny dot at 20km. Hard to see with naked eye. We’ll do lots of flights.
_Bass3d    Very impressive render. Note, legs will be bigger &amp; there’ll be way more stuff in engine bay. Main engines actually do majority of work in turning ship vertical before landing.
 _sci This might sting a little …
 The “early investor” part of Tesla is wrong. That bs has been pushed by Eberhard (worst person I’ve ever worked with and that’s saying something!) for years.
_sci Also, there could be long period comets that intersect Earth right now. We just haven’t observed them during humanity’s (very short) recorded history. Comet S-L 9 punched a roughly Earth-sized hole in Jupiter.  
_sci Pretty much
Cybertruck option package
  Wow
_Buddies  My button-twiddling makes no sense at all 🤣🤣
   You got it  
 That’s a great one
“Tanks 4 the memery” - panzer of the lake
Some big milestones coming up
 Africa is big
 Bold move, sir, bold move
   Thank you, Tesla is most honored!
  Very real possibility
 ☺️
 🤣🤣
Please trash me on Wikipedia, I’m begging you
History is written by the victors … except on Wikipedia haha
  Cover of Barbie Girl
 Yes. Probably more accurate to say Great Filters plural.
  Yes, it’s called Cyber Girl
We must pass The Great Filter
Sounds right  
_rami   Seriously
_elon Crysis rocks
A truly useful exaflop at de facto FP32
 _feed Metal has a fudge-like consistency near its melting point, so you can just smoosh it together
_feed This is how we make Falcon 9

 _Enough  This is out of our hands, so hard to predict. Maybe on order of 10 billion km of real world driving will be enough to convince regulators.
 Yes
  🤣🤣 hasty govt 🤣🤣
  _Enough   A lot of work remains. Technically, we have it working in sim with FPGAs at ~0.01% capability. This will be a true supercomputer.
 _Enough   Dojo is still being built. Maybe a year or so from V1.0.
_Enough   Autopilot was trapped in a local maximum, labeling single camera images uncorrelated in time. Now, it is not.
_Enough   Your insights over the years have been excellent. That’s approximately right.
 Absolutely, but it doesn’t seem that govt can move fast enough
 Ok
 It will blow ur mind haha  
Our main engineering locations are Palo Alto, Austin &amp; Seattle, but working remotely is acceptable for exceptional candidates
 I want to do electric vtol supersonic sooo bad, but my brain will overload
_sci Asteroid impact risk is well understood, but not comets. Those worry me.
Great mission patch design!
_Truth Haha true
  Yup
  Exactly
   Also definitely coming haha. Will only be on relatively recent cars, as we didn’t have an outside speaker until about a year ago. Can change inside sound easily.
   Sorry, this is embarrassingly late. Two factor authentication via sms or authenticator app is going through final validation right now.
@_bennettm_  Yes! We’re labeling bumps &amp; potholes, so the car can slow down or steer around them when safe to do so.
  Not perfectly at first, but yes. Will take maybe a year or so to get really good at roundabouts worldwide. The world has a zillion weird corner cases.
 This is what I meant by “4D”  
 The FSD improvement will come as a quantum leap, because it’s a fundamental architectural rewrite, not an incremental tweak. I drive the bleeding edge alpha build in my car personally. Almost at zero interventions between home &amp; work. Limited public release in 6 to 10 weeks.
Tesla is developing a NN training computer called Dojo to process truly vast amounts of video data. It’s a beast! Please consider joining our AI or computer/chip teams if this sounds interesting.
 More software improvements coming
 Significant improvements coming to S/X air suspension soon via software update! Will simultaneously improve performance handling &amp; ride comfort &amp; enable user customization of height &amp; damping, geocoded for relevance.
 H2O, CH4/CO2, N2, iron, nickel, chrome, aluminum (not necessarily in that order) will matter far more than gold or platinum for space travel
  What are the odds … ?
  The rate of improvement from original GPT to GPT-3 is impressive. If this rate of improvement continues, GPT-5 or 6 could be indistinguishable from the smartest humans. Just my opinion, not an endorsement. I left OpenAI 2 to 3 years ago. Am a neutral outsider at this point.
 Tesla team is working hard on increasing Powerwall production
_Bass3d  SN8
 Impressive
 Psyche  
        Yes, integrated with the tip of the nose
 This is important
 Probably not faster than utility power can be restored. Powerwall/Powerpack/Megapack can certainly be helpful long-term.  
        Starship fairing will actually have more height than shown here. Dome will be flatter &amp; more of tip is accessible. Usable volume ~1000 cubic meters.
   You are correct. This is a substantial underpayment compared to what ULA has received.
 So why is this madness acceptable for Boeing/Lockheed rockets?
 Nobody would suggest buying airplanes that only fly once &amp; then crash into the ocean. That would be absurd …
_com I generally try my best not to be on patents
 Efficiently reusable rockets are all that matter for making life multiplanetary &amp; “space power”. Because their rockets are not reusable, it will become obvious over time that ULA is a complete waste of taxpayer money.
 Will be amazing to see it in operation! Biggest casting machine ever made. Will make rear body in a single piece, including crash rails.
  Sorry to hear this. What can we do to help?
 No surprise
 Aiming to make it super fun!
 A little toastier each flight
 Same hex tiles, slightly different mounting method. Need bigger sections of tiles to see how they hold up with cryo shrinkage, pressure expansion &amp; body bending.
SN7 will be new alloy test tank taken to burst pressure. SN8 will have body flaps &amp; nosecone.
SN 5 &amp; 6 at Starship Production Complex in Texas  
_Goldberg_  One day soon, I will wear this outfit  
_Goldberg_  I was trying to channel Herb Tarlek from WKRP  
_Goldberg_  Note the fabulous plaid jacket &amp; gingham shirt combo 🤣
 Twin Peaks
 Working on my Mom’s cousin’s farm in Saskatchewan at age 17. I think we did a barn-raising that day.
  
 Not sure yet, but hopefully. Will need leg &amp; other repairs. Probably SN6 flies before SN5. We need to make flights simple &amp; easy — many per day.
 Clearly
    Also true
   🤣🤣
  Over time, since we give all employees shares, my ownership is diluted automatically. From the first financing round, where I owned ~60% of Tesla to today at ~20%, it has declined by a factor of 3.
  I wonder if he reads his Twitter feed
 And why aim your attacks at Tesla, when we’re doing more than any other company on Earth to advance green/sustainable energy? Have you read the news?  
 That bs was pushed by oil &amp; gas interests to distract people from the $5 *trillion* per year they receive in subsidies. Bernard Sanders is a docile puppet of big oil!  
    🎯
  Good analysis. He also includes a govt loan for high efficiency vehicles that Tesla paid back with interest several years, unlike other auto companies.
 💯
  _max  Yeah, full name of engine is Velociraptor or Raptor for short
  _max  Haha, good catch. Booster will have fixed legs that add ~2m in height.
 _max  I think we can get (Veloci)Raptor T/W on par with Merlin. Latter also started out with about half its current T/W.
 It will look crazy tall with booster &amp; fairing at 122m / 394 ft
    Ok
  Apart from failing to quarantine elderly/at-risk people early (a mistake they recognize), they were right
  
Good piece on Giga Berlin construction
  This seems increasingly likely
 This is gonna be great
SN5  
   We’ll do several short hops to smooth out launch process, then go high altitude with body flaps
    Soon
  V1.1 legs will be ~60% longer. V2.0 legs will be much wider &amp; taller — like Falcon, but capable of landing on unimproved surfaces &amp; auto-leveling.
 Progress is accelerating
 Exactly
 Mars is looking real
 Possible flight in 3 mins
 Most likely
   True
  Highly likely down the road
 True fact
 Scrubbed for the day. A Raptor turbopump spin start valve didn’t open, triggering an automatic abort. We’ll figure out why &amp; retry tomorrow.
 I’m in the Boca control room. Hop attempt in ~33 minutes.
  For sure
_feed Tbh, I must confess to occasionally pontificating about high-concept things
_feed Pretty much
 Nosecone closing is recommended, but not required, for safe entry
When space travel becomes as common as air travel, the future of civilization will be assured
 Space is the new air
Congratulations  &amp;  on completing first crewed Dragon flight!! 🇺🇸 returned.
Dragon is stable in the water
Acquisition of signal expected in 5 mins
4 mins to Dragon loss of signal due to atmospheric entry plasma
Dragon will travel from south of New Zealand to Florida in ~37 minutes
Coming in hot
Astronauts land in 2 hours  
  However, we did prove that a SuperDraco landing could work by doing a propulsive hover  
  All correct. Parachutes were originally the backup landing system, with SuperDraco thrusters as primary. Difficulty of proving thruster landing safety *and* architecture being suboptimal for moon/Mars caused us to change focus to parachutes.
  _Station  _Doug Great game
   _Win Working on it
 The simplest solution is not necessarily the most satisfying
🧙‍♂️
 Absolutely. Long-lasting art is incredibly difficult.
This BBC article provides a sensible summary for how it was done  
The Great Pyramid was the tallest structure made by humans for 3800 years. Three thousand, eight hundred years.   
 So true
Ramses II was 😎
Aliens built the pyramids obv
 Ancient Egypt had an incredible esthetic that stands to this day
 ☺️
 _feed Witch logic  
 _feed Things we take for granted, like flying, would have had you burned at the stake for witchcraft not that long ago
_feed Engineering is magic made real
 Lo Que Construimos  
 Cool

Starship SN5 just completed full duration static fire. 150m hop soon.
🖤🧛‍♀️Total Eclipse of the Heart 🧛‍♀️🖤  
  😮
    _Skeptic Not that I’m aware of
   _Skeptic Yes. Could also extend range of hearing beyond normal frequencies and amplitudes. Deus Ex.
  _Skeptic Neuralinks are currently meant for mature brains &amp; functionality is lost if removed. Rewiring of neurons is certainly possible, but won’t make up for loss of the Link.
 _Skeptic Yes, should be possible to create a neural shunt from motor cortex to microcontrollers in muscle groups &amp; restore movement even if someone has a fully severed spinal cord. First part has already been demonstrated with Utah array, but not as an outpatient device.
_Skeptic Will show neurons firing in real-time on August 28th. The matrix in the matrix.
_Skeptic They don’t fire all at once. Some go several seconds to minutes without firing. Some fire several times per second. Very wide timing distribution.
  _LSP Congrats on a great launch!
But sometimes when we touch …  
    Adagio for Strings is great  
Losing It  
  🤣🤣
  Mein Herz Brennt. Best boss battle song ever.  
 Robot Heart is 🔥🔥
 One of the all time best
 Sure
Sure could use a good rave What’s your favorite techno
I … I just died in your arms tonight
The rumor that Bill Gates &amp; I are lovers is completely untrue
  Yeah. Display will also soon render Teslas specifically as their model &amp; color instead of as a generic sedan/SUV. Has potential for a fun punch buggy sort of game.
   
  We’ve been working on this for about 4 years. Originally meant for rabies vaccine, but it can make pretty much anything that’s an RNA sequence. Critical path is completing human trials.
   
 🎶 Billy G is not my lover 🎶
 Sounds like he doesn’t realize Tesla makes the vaccine machine for CureVac
  Thanks for letting me know. Will dig into it.
 😉
 Sum &gt; parts
 Should add a few miles of range, more in slow traffic
 _aw _  The government has the most money by far. They talk in trillions.
  Haha no one can ever have our top secret fart technology!!
 💕 💕
_lopezXx  Sure
 Tesla is open to licensing software and supplying powertrains &amp; batteries. We’re just trying to accelerate sustainable energy, not crush competitors!
_aw _  What he doesn’t appear to appreciate is that government is just a monopolist corporation in the limit
 !
   Agreed
   Haha
_Ryan  It’s a prototype of the color
  And to think I used to like Bernie! 😢  
    🕊🕊
  Maybe he’s feeling the bern haha
 Fuel spin valve didn’t open. Will fix &amp; try again tomorrow. Also, some odd TVC hydraulic pump behavior.
 I was just out at the launch pad. Connector damaged in the storm, but fixed now. Might be able to fire tonight or at least get to the next issue.
 Whether commercial or government, monopolies are bad for the people
 Sounds great
_nafnlaus  Haha
Das Kapital in a nutshell  
 What I like most is their great sense of humor
The left is losing the middle
  Exactly
   🤣🤣
Hold my beer  
 Once an Onion, now a Rose
  Wow, you think about me a lot!
 You dropped this
 🌹
 Haha
 Giga Berlin will come together at an impossible-seeming speed. The prefabricated construction method in Germany is extremely impressive.
Almost a decade ago. Original Dragon in background.
  Ya just can’t beat BR

 Planet Claire is 🔥🔥
 Fair point! Will discuss with team.
 He was amazing
Great song  
_model  Nickel is the biggest challenge for high-volume, long-range batteries! Australia &amp; Canada are doing pretty well. US nickel production is objectively very lame. Indonesia 🇮🇩 is great!  
  🤣🤣
 That’s me! Haha
 This has a lot of potential. Lithium is pretty much everywhere.
 Whoa cool
 🤣🤣
   Has to be blue steel :)
  We need high Brinell hardness &amp; high corrosion resistance. Because of Cybertruck’s faceted nature, formability is not important.
   I really want to do this! Will be great fun. Could be both LA and Austin.
  Turning them into shade for an outdoor restaurant here in Boca
 Cool
 _TeslaPhx    _benton  Yes
_TeslaPhx    _benton  Not impossible
 Those were the days! 🤣🤣
   Ring of Fire  
   I know! Congratulations to the people of Bolivia 🇧🇴!!
  The song I whistle most is Strangers in the Night
 Some of whom seriously think Tesla toppled the Bolivian govt (sigh)  
 Great song
   Haha thanks Kara :)
  For sure
   Yeah, we’re hunkering down here until the hurricane passes
_MorenoS  Exactly!
Cool Model 3 review by   
 Tesla will add a power lift gate at no cost
 Agreed, hydrogen fool sells make no sense
Pronouns suck
 Also, we get our lithium from Australia
 🤣🤣
 Yeah, would have been way better just to send everyone $6k
I bet no one on 🌹 Twitter even *has* a guillotine! Poseurs …
_feed [slow drag on cigarette) Facebook? Haven’t heard that name in years …
🌹 Twitter sucks
  Something like that. If politicians could legislate wealth, everyone would be a trillionaire.
These are jammed to gills with special interests earmarks. If we do a stimulus at all, it should just be direct payments to consumers.
 Pretty much
Goal of government should be to maximize the happiness of the people. Giving each person money allows them to decide what meets their needs, rather than the blunt tool of legislation, which creates self-serving special interests.
As a reminder, I’m in *favor* of universal basic income
Another government stimulus package is not in the best interests of the people imo
Tesla solar panels are $1.49/Watt   
  Thank you on behalf of the Tesla team. We look forward to building Giga Texas!
 Competition ensures companies work hard to serve the needs of their customers
  Something fun is coming
    Could be great!
  That’s a great idea!
 We are actually looking for revolutionary actuaries for Tesla Insurance! Please inquire, if interested.
 Tbh, we are just a bit less foolish than before
 Retail investors like  are remarkably insightful. Also, .
 Especially for boost stage, which is volumetrically constrained, CH4 is way better than H2. Soviet CH4 engine prototypes from 80’s were very advanced. Glad to see reusability is being factored in.
 Basically, our pixel size
  Can’t emphasize this enough
  Absolutely
 Haha
 Agreed
 My oven keeps asking for my wifi password. It’s not gonna get it.
Impressive Tianwen-1 Mars rover mission launched by China today  
_Future Good article
 Similar problem with US data
 Good point
You don’t have a soul, you are a soul
 Adding people in next version
2 minutes later …  
 Just another day in 2020
  Individualized mass transit is the future
 No, best to have people seated for safety &amp; speed of travel
Coming soon  
 Human overseen at first, then fully self-driving
 Can’t say, but it involves a 🐻
_10 🔥🔥
 🤣
 This one stings
Where are the memes? Send in … the memes …
 We need to finish upgrading Autopilot to 4D vs ~2.5D, then it will go up very steep slopes
Nothing has gaslit more people than the movie Gaslight
_   Well said, Brian Williams!
 Great shot!
 👍
 Sometimes, that’s how I feel too!
   Will attempt to fly later this week
_myneni    Sound &amp; flame color will be quite different
   Yes
  We’re rapidly changing alloy constituents &amp; forming methods, so traditional names like 304L will become more of an approximation
 🤣🤣
 At some point, we should probably do advertising as art/communication/entertainment &amp; to support high quality media
Das baby kann noch keinen löffel benutzen  
  _AA_Carmack It’s almost right
 _AA_Carmack We talked about an hour ago. He seems fine.
_AA_Carmack VR Twitter with avatars saying the mentions 😈
 Better to put the money into the product than sales &amp; marketing!
 We should bring Life to Mars
Both fairing halves caught from space by  ships!
 Nice work, SpaceX team!
  _Doug  Still long way to go. Reuse only matters to degree that it’s rapid &amp; complete.
 Too long since we were last there
Launch in 20 mins
  In a few months in production release. Already does that in alpha build.
 Lithium is extremely common on Earth. Found almost everywhere.
  Congratulations MHI &amp; UAE!
_t   Stilton
  New deep crimson from Giga Berlin is my favorite
 Important to service very high latitudes
_man American, but born in South Africa. Left by myself when I was 17.
 True, the 2012 Model S is still a great car. Was driving SN28 a few months ago and driving feel was excellent. Model S remains my fav car to drive.
  Will discuss on Wed earnings call. Lots to talk about!
 🤣🤣
_howard8 Yes
 This looks cool
 It has that potential
       Good article. I started The Boring Company as a joke, but now it’s digging real tunnels!
  It’s not really set up for tours, but maybe it should
   _Station Manufactured only 5 mins from LAX!
 Some contribute more. Y chromosome &amp; mitochondria are constant, except for mutations.
   Yes
 That is just one part of the surgery. For this to scale, it must be fully automated, like LASIK.
This would solve a lot of brain/spine injuries &amp; is ultimately essential for AI symbiosis
 Fermi was awesome. He understood the right questions to ask.
  🤣🤣
  BDE
  How come Hulk never loses pants!?
 Yes
 No prior neuroscience background is required. This is primarily an electrical/electronic (chip design)/mechanical/software engineering problem for the Link itself &amp; the surgical robot.
Solving high-volume, high-reliability, low-cost production problems is especially valued
If you’ve solved hard problems with phones / wearables (sealing, signal processing, inductive charging, power mgmt, etc), please consider working at engineering.com
 Many
 Summarizes pretty much every biz school case study
It’s inevitable  
 Excuse me, I only sell Doge!
Will those who write the algorithms ever realize their negativity bias?
  Pretty much
 We better hustle with Neuralink. Not moving fast enough.
Thanks
Just stop
 💕💕
  🤣🤣
_ _feed Gigafactory is the product even more than the car
 Yes
_feed Carefully hidden
  Sure
 Might be an indoor/outdoor rave space on the roof
Giga Berlin  
   Exactly, this is a serious problem. Ratio of retirees to workers is tracking towards unsustainability in many countries. An upside down demographic pyramid is unstable.
  Considering
  Small note: latch on post near base is gone &amp; powered Ethernet wire is less obtrusive in production version
  
  This thing we call “money” is just a (slow, lossy &amp; unsecure) database for labor allocation. Investing is meaningless without people, at least until AGI happens, which will obviate need for labor &amp; necessitate UBI.
  Trying to set a good example haha. Mars needs people!
 Great work by Tesla software engineering
 Population collapse is 2nd biggest danger to civilization after AI imo
   Yeah, will take less than a minute to order on   when it goes live
  Starlink terminal has motors to self-orient for optimal view angle. No expert installer required. Just plug in &amp; give it a clear view of the sky. Can be in garden, on roof, table, pretty much anywhere, so long as it has a wide view of the sky.
 Ok
_avoigt  🤔
      _Group  _J_Beck To revolutionize space, the right metric is mass to orbit or you could translate that to # of useful satellites brought to orbit. No substitute for mass though. Scale don’t lie.
   Exactly
 Tesla Autopilot was literally named after the term used in aviation. Also, what about Autobahn!?
 _feed The strength &amp; perseverance of the people of Tesla, despite facing extreme difficulties
_feed Playable on any Tesla!
      Should do this automatically
     _Group  Mass to orbit is a more accurate metric than # of launches, although should be orbit-adjusted (eg GTO&gt;LEO), which would increase competitor mass numbers
 Cute
    _Padival      Wow
 Reusability is essential. A rocket that is single use is just as absurd as a single use airplane. F9 engines already fire 3 times per flight.
 Wild times!
 We’re being extra paranoid. Maximizing probability of successful launch is paramount.
 Welcome anytime
 Well, I do care very much about sustainability of civilization, but there is some truth to the irony part haha
     Yes, in plan. Superchargers and public high power wall connectors will keep growing exponentially every year.
    👀
     I think so
   Doing range testing now. Number will be significantly higher than 300. Extremely good for any EV, especially an SUV.
   We have reduced pricing on Model Y LR dual motor &amp; will offer a LR single motor Y in a few months, which improves affordability, while still keeping the product excellent
    Yes
   It may be able to reach 250kW at low states of charge
   No, as range would be unacceptably low (&lt; 250 mile EPA)
  We had to increase some wire thicknesses in S/X to reduce resistive heating. Technically, won’t be quite 1000 mph charging, as X especially is much bigger than 3.
   _Truth       Hell of a ride!
 Thanks :)
 That is the near-term danger of AI
 I didn’t mind DA2. DA1 was awesome. Mass Effect 2 (talking about sequels) is amazing.
 Haha
 Maybe he should design flag of Mars
_feed 48 65 78 20 74 6f 20 74 65 78 74

I spoke with Korolev’s family today. He was one of the very best. Корольов / Королёв.
_Afshari In general, we need to improve how podcasts play
 SPQR  
  True haha
    Death is the loss of information
    Earning power post augmentation would easily pay for itself (if that’s even necessary). This is the best thing I can think of to ensure that collective human will decides the future.
   Absolutely
   👀
   Probably a good one to design &amp; engineer in Germany
_bnd   Even more
   Ok
   👀
  Berlin Model Y is the one to watch. That is a revolution in automotive body engineering (finally).
 True
Wow, IHOP &amp; GitHub are close
Best use of the term “Full Stack”?
  For sure. This is both great &amp; terrifying. Everything we’ve ever sensed or thought has been electrical signals. The early universe was just a soup of quarks &amp; leptons. How did a very small piece of the Universe start to think of itself as sentient?
 Yes
 Sorry, should hopefully be soon!
 Not actually a payout, just a vesting of stock options. It may never pay out, as the stock can’t be sold for 5 years after exercise. The stock must be bought &amp; income taxes paid, then hold value for 5 years.
 No easy way to answer this in a tweet, but helping with dire brain injuries is our first priority. Details Aug 28.
AI symbiosis while u wait
  There’s some of that too
 True, it sounds so surreal, but the negative propaganda is still all out there &amp; easy to find in social media &amp; press interviews, so it’s not just our imagination!
 Make sure to read ur terms &amp; conditions before clicking accept!
  Samwise Gamgee
 Altho Dumb and Dumber is 🔥🔥
Progress update August 28
 Sure
If you can’t beat em, join em Neuralink mission statement
   Tesla China team is awesome!
 Words are a very lossy compression of thought
_net  If you get past Mars, the asteroids, moons of Jupiter &amp; Saturn, inevitably you reach Uranus!
 🖤✨Carl Sagan ✨🖤
 Essentially. Long-term purpose of my Tesla stock is to help make life multiplanetary to ensure it’s continuance. The massive capital needs are in 10 to 20 years. By then, if we’re fortunate, Tesla’s goal of accelerating sustainable energy &amp; autonomy will be mostly accomplished.
 Thank goodness for modern medicine!
 For sure
 Coming soon, our battle with Big Tequila! It’s real.
   That would be next-level 🤣🤣
  I bought a pair of XL
 Also true. Haha you rock!
 Nailed it
 Thanks Johnna, you too 💕
_ Good summary
_ There were 268 years without war. That’s the amazing part.
   Yeah!
  Lord of the Rings
  Looks cool
  Sure :)
 Age of Napoleon, so far. The first books are a little dry. Gets much better when Ariel is co-author.
 🤣🤣
Read The Story of Civilization by Will &amp; Ariel Durant
 Well said
Dang, we broke the website
Only $69.420!!
Limited edition short shorts now available at  
 Yes haha, we will soon be short of short shorts
_bnd    Yeah, it’s pretty weird
_24     Yeah, but first we need to finish Giga Berlin and a second US Giga to serve eastern half of North America
  Nice haha
  It may have started already
 It’s absurdly large
  Yup
Beautiful fireworks in LA tonight
 He is a mind virus for fools
North American Supercharger usage is now at pre-covid high, Europe about a week behind, China &amp; Asia-Pacific in general doing great  
 🤣🤣
 Sorry to hear about this. Hope you get back to orbit soon. Rockets are hard.

 You have my full support!
 🤣🤣
Please take a moment to report accounts clearly engaged in harassment. It is the only way to maintain public discourse.
🇺🇸🇺🇸 Happy 4th of July!! 🇺🇸🇺🇸
   That would be great
_aw       Agreed, but it’s hard to ignore what is effectively a social media denial of service attack
  Accounts that unequivocally advocate harassment should be suspended with warning, then shut down if repeated
 True
      Yeah, but why? I’m working on sustainable energy cars &amp; solar that help Earth and making life multiplanetary, to ensure its continuance, with SpaceX.
    Thanks, that would promote good public discourse
   A pseudojourno asked all his followers to spam my mentions
 Wow
  True
 You’re a good person
  To the best our knowledge, he never toured SpaceX. Don’t know where that comes from.
 I was at that Vanity Fair party with . Don’t know Ghislaine. Real question is why did VF invite her?
 Now you’re unblocked, so stop whining
 I only block people as a direct insult  
  Yes. Green card (permanent residency) is fine too for SpaceX, according to ITAR rules.
 Yeah, Tesla app would enable you to release your car into the fleet &amp; summon it back at will
 Directly, my companies employ roughly 65,000 people. However, there is a massive global supply &amp; logistics chain that employs 4 to 5 times that number.
 RWD is slightly more efficient, but dual motor AWD is faster &amp; more agile
Congrats Tesla Team — U ROK!!
       🤣🤣 damn, hoist on my own petard!
     I don’t have an “emerald mine”, nor was I given free money from anyone, inheritance or otherwise. Ashlee Vance interviewed hundreds of people. Ask him.  
_boyarbeatz      
     Good point
 🤣🤣
     
   _factory Thanks for hosting me in Tulsa today!
      This is false. I landed in Montreal at age 17 with $2000, a backpack of clothes &amp; suitcase of books. My father is bankrupt &amp; has been for a long time. I inherited literally nothing from him.  
 She photobombed me at a Vanity Fair Oscar party. Was there with . Don’t know Ghislaine at all. Why do you think it should be a bigger story?
 _truth Greenspan is crackers, bananas, barky &amp; ten cards short of a full deck
  Others will probably pass human trials first, but this machine is pretty special for generalized vaccine production. Was originally intended for rabies, which is a very tricky virus.
     Interesting
     Good point, we don’t
     Coming soon
    HCL appears to be effective when used early  
  Unfortunately, there are thousands of automotive design rule differences between US &amp; EU, including completely different charge ports. Gets worse every year. Not our choice.
   There’s that too. Deaths should be broken out as died with vs died of.
  Deaths continue to trend down  
 We’re seeing field false positives much higher than lab false positives, in range of 5% to 10%. Article says testing went from 100k to 600k, which means a 6-fold increase in false positives. My guess is most cases, especially “no symptoms”, are false positives.
     Yes
    The news is sometimes created, but always curated. The latter is most pernicious. On any given day, there are thousands of potential stories. By picking which stories are written about &amp; how prominently they’re placed, a handful of publishers control much of the public narrative.
    Klippenstein has gone full twitter troll. Big mistake. Never go full troll!
   Oh yeah, Klip Einstein, pseudojournalist &amp; douche-about-town
   😂😂
  Someone is paying for hundreds of bots &amp; trolls to push this lame Vanity Fair photobomb pic. I wonder who …
  🤣🤣 true
 This is false. I have never introduced either of them to anyone.
  Yeah
_comes_back  Sounds sketch
  Pretty much
 Haute couture
  Thanks!
 Don’t know Ghislaine at all. She photobombed me once at a Vanity Fair party several years ago. Real question is why VF invited her in the first place 🤔
 Thanks Viv, you rock 💕
  Sure, we will aim to do a cross-country drive with Cybertruck later this year
 Ok fine 🤣🤣
    Exactly
_AA_Carmack Yes
Thanks Tesla owners &amp; investors! Love you!! We will work super hard to earn your trust &amp; support.
 Thank goodness! Front license plates make my eyes bleed.
 Not bad
 But sooo satisfying
SEC, three letter acronym, middle word is Elon’s
Will send some to the Shortseller Enrichment Commission to comfort them through these difficult times
 Should have a free trade agreement with US. No tariffs at all either way.
 I worried we won’t be taken seriously if our short shorts have flames 🤣🤣
 He wore them well. No denying it.
 Busted! I secretly ♥️ short shorts.
Tesla will make fabulous short shorts in radiant red satin with gold trim
_ Great interview 🤣🤣
  Yes
 Sellers of medium height or above are fine
 Those dang budgie smugglers!!
Who wears short shorts? 🤣🤣
   Great song 🤣🤣
 Awesome!!
 _rasmussen _rod_co Thank you. Angie …
_rasmussen _rod_co bs  
_rasmussen _rod_co You cherry-picked one state out of fifty, which saw a minor uptick. Show the whole country.
  I tried to warn them … 😢
   Yup
_rod_co Something’s messed up about medicine that’s anti-science. In science, you question everyone, no matter who they are. Facts &amp; reasoning are everything, but in medicine too much emphasis is on credentials, often by people who’ve accomplished nothing but a PhD thesis used by no one.
_rod_co _rasmussen Here’s one:  
_rod_co _rasmussen Yes, Angela, please show us the graphs/data that prove your point
    I’m not building anything on ethereum. Not for or against it, just don’t use it or own any.
_tesla  Lithium is common. Hard part is turning lithium salt or clay into extremely pure LiOH.
    Yes, at Tesla Grohmann
   Tesla, as a side project, is building RNA microfactories for CureVac &amp; possibly others
   In principle, I think synthetic RNA (and DNA) has amazing potential. This basically makes the solution to many diseases a software problem.
  As you’d expect, this has resulted in a proportionately very high number of C19 false positives. Field test reliability we are seeing is best case 5%, worst case 50% false positive. Much worse than lab accuracy.
 Seems fishy
   🤣🤣 very true
    A lot of functionality will happen all at once when we transition to the new software stack. Most likely, it will be releasable in 2 to 4 months. Then it’s a question of what functionality is proven safe enough to enable for owners.
   Going well. Team is kicking ass &amp; it’s an honor to work with them. Pretty much everything had to be rewritten, including our labeling software, so that it’s fundamentally “3D” at every step from training through inference.
  Crassus was a dick
 Haha awesome 🤣🤣
  Hell of a decade
   I love Texas! Starship production complex is in Boca Chica &amp; SpaceX engine development has been in McGregor for almost 18 years.
  Aiming for 10km with lots of turns to better approximate a real-world tunnel
   You just have to be a shareholder. There is limited space, so sign up fast when we do final confirmation of date &amp; location.
  Wow, I’ve never seen this level of support! Out of respect, seems like I should at least visit.
  We need to finish building a much longer vacuum tunnel for speed tests &amp; probably have an additional competition for tunneling itself
 All questions will be answered on Battery Day, Sept 15th. Will be webcast, although there is much to see in person.
Tesla Impact Report (repost). We do everything humanly possible to source materials &amp; produce sustainable energy cars, batteries &amp; solar ethically. Suggestions for improvement are always appreciated.   
  Things often don’t translate from mice to humans, but that’s promising
 Likely true
 Yes
 Starlink will provide global coverage
  Worth discussing at annual shareholders meeting
 Party on …
_papili Fixing
    Extremely big difference between died because of or died with. Also, did the person actually have C19 or did they just have C19 symptoms? It’s almost impossible to die without feeling weakness, shortness of breath or other C19 symptoms, unless you were crushed by a falling piano.
Your GPS just got slightly better
_hart  This bill needs to be revoked. It gives absurd power to county bureaucrats.
   If accurate, this would explain a lot
  Levitt is right
 There are a lot of C19 false positives messing up the numbers. Even tests with 5% false positive rate (in *field*, not lab) would show up as ~17 million  fake C19 cases even if there were actually none.
    Very much agree
  Good hygiene always makes sense
 True
_Watts @_TomCross_  _Museum Cybertruck does feel like cgi irl
  
 There are a ridiculous number of false positive C19 tests, in some cases ~50%. False positives scale linearly with # of tests. This is a big part of why C19 positive tests are going up while hospitalizations &amp; mortality are declining. Anyone who tests positive should retest.
Btw, Tesla actually receives *least* subsidies of any automaker in US. Federal tax credit applies to other automaker EVs, but no longer Tesla.
Great Model Y review by   
 Dogs rock
69 days after 4/20 again haha
  Physics favors electric transport, batteries for stationary storage &amp; solar/wind for energy generation
 Major Supercharger increases are underway for the greater LA area
 For sure
    Verified should be far more widespread, simply that someone is who they claim to be
 It’s a tough one. That’s why we should expand the scope &amp; scale of consciousness — to understand the nature of the Universe.
 Jay is awesome
  Absolutely!
 Giga Berlin is gonna rock!
. is a copy 🐈 haha
 It’s close though 😅
_Mog This makes no sense for many other reasons too. They don’t actually have spectrum priority, they have shared spectrum &amp; nothing about this company is UK, except post office box. Money would be better spent on actual UK satellite industry!
  Glad you like it!
 _Henning Great idea
Who controls the memes, controls the Universe

_menieb 🤣🤣
Literally
Only a matter of time before someone steals a Tesla while playing GTA on a Tesla
 Very meta, but yes
 True
 Coming soon
North American Supercharger usage tracking to exceed pre covid highs in 2 to 3 weeks. Lot of noise out there. This is signal.  
 I think we could make that work
  Glad you’re ok
  Exactly! A carbon tax is needed to correct the unpriced externality &amp; market will do the rest. The consequences of slow action are serious. In my opinion, we need to convert &gt;80% of the global road, sea &amp; air fleet to renewables by 2050.
_bnd         Looks pretty cool
 Could be slightly faster
Two Starship tanks in the midbay  
 Ok
Special thanks to Tesla trucking &amp; rail partners for figuratively &amp; literally going the extra mile
Apologies to Tesla customers for shifting delivery dates. It’s a crazy world out there!
_Hypixel  Yes, it is designed to serve the least-served
  Yes, although Starlink works best for low population density situations
 Canada is a major priority for Starlink!
  September sounds about right
 _Gesagt Well said by _Gesagt
_bike  Takes longer to get regulatory approvals in Europe, plus way more diverse traffic signs, lights &amp; road rules
 Timing is uncertain, given externalities, but yes
 Congratulations!
 Very much disagree with this action. In my experience, these skillsets are net job creators. Visa reform makes sense, but this is too broad.
 Will be changed to $3k until July 1st
 Yes
 Yes
Tentative date for Tesla Shareholder Meeting &amp; Battery Day is Sept 15. Will include tour of cell production system.
   _Titans Done. Now $2k via in-app purchase.
Reminder that Tesla Full Self-Driving (FSD) price goes up by $1k on July 1st
Enabling basic Tesla Autopilot via Tesla in-app purchase is reduced to $2k until July 1
 All patched up!
 Entirely possible. Social media is a limbic amplifier, which inherently destabilizes civilization.
 Ensure future of Earth &amp; extend life sustainably to other planets
   Probably early Q4
2019 seems so quaint &amp; long ago  
 There are no signs of intelligent life
 Yes
 Luck is the best superpower
That is our purpose
Tesla Bioweapon Defense Mode  
We must pass The Great Filter
 That’s how she likes it …
 Agreed, although best is no out of service stalls
Mars is my souldog
 _J_B_123 Yes
If heat death is the end of the universe, it really is all about the journey
_J_B_123 Best definition of innovation I’ve ever heard
    _Titans All good
   _Titans Will follow up by tomorrow
   _Titans Sure
   Will do. I play PC, so missed some of console exclusives.
   Haha sure
  Deus Ex / Half-Life 2 / Bioshock / Mass Effect 2 / Fallout 3 &amp; New Vegas / Saints Row IV
   _Titans There will be a subscription, but it will be economically better to have bought FSD
  _Titans This would be a good time to upgrade to FSD, as it goes up by $1k on July 1. We could make it $7k to upgrade to FSD until July 1 (even if you don’t have basic Autopilot). Does that sound good?
 _Titans This does sound excessive. Will look into it.
_Titans Just us being fools, but free Supercharging forever is not coming back to any vehicles. It’s not a good incentive structure.
  _rogers   Haha Teslas all the way down
 _rogers   Maybe, will look into it. We’d need to emulate a TV.
_rogers   We could probably make a fun punch (click) buggy game, with extra points for rare Teslas
 Bought based on your review. It’s great!
 The was not to outcompete other companies, but rather to maximize usefulness &amp; rate of progress in the absolute
 For example, we created a chip design team from scratch for the Tesla full self-driving computer, which is not something car companies do
 Tesla should really be thought of as roughly a dozen technology startups, many of which have little to no correlation with traditional automotive companies
  We are putting a lot of effort into improving the Tesla China experience with local engineering &amp; great feedback from Tesla owners in China!
  Cool, lmk what we can do to improve the product, especially vehicle software/firmware, app &amp; overall interaction with Tesla, as these changes can immediately improve the entire fleet
 Feels so long ago
  Pulling up to The Petersen
  Nice
  We will add one more PTO day after the annual review next quarter
   It will look a little odd
    Probably Fremont
   Probably good to combine them, since they are converging in time. I’m hopeful we can announce a date after the July 4th week.
  Yes, but we will have to postpone annual shareholder meeting, as still no large gatherings allowed by July 7th. Not sure of new date, but am guessing maybe a month or so later.
 Stop by The Petersen is you’d like to see Cybertruck irl! Lots of awesome cars &amp; bikes there. Definitely worth seeing with or without Cybertruck.
 It does require use of a paid-time-off day, which is true of many other holidays
Juneteenth is henceforth considered a US holiday at Tesla &amp; SpaceX
  Moving fast
   Opening in about two weeks
  _schnitt Reaching chamber pressure of 300 atmospheres
 Confirmed
 _schnitt  
  🤣🤣
  We are considering several options
 Tesla has an option to purchase this land, but has not exercised it
 Renewable energy is happening fast
 Comes standard with Cybertruck
 Not sure. They’re pretty close together.
 It will be real
  _parrish Maybe Incat  
 There will be many test flights before commercial passengers are carried. First Earth to Earth test flights might be in 2 or 3 years.
 _parrish We need to be far enough away so as not to bother heavily populated areas. The launch &amp; landing are not subtle. But you could get within a few miles of the spaceport in a boat.
 Directionally correct, but Zenit is an order of magnitude smaller than Starship system &amp; doesn’t come back &amp; land
 US law requires at least a green card to be hired at SpaceX, as rockets are considered advanced weapons technology
_parrish Pretty much
 Illuminaughty haha
SpaceX is building floating, superheavy-class spaceports for Mars, moon &amp; hypersonic travel around Earth
 Maybe some Flextape
 No problem, we can buff it out
 Fairing reuse is looking good
_com  _Publishing So where are the aliens?
 Or Y
 No larger pack Model 3 is in development
_peter  Actually, we’ve made slight changes, but the range improvement is &gt;90% efficiency
 Cool
 Physics doesn’t care about politicians
 Coming soon
All Model S cars made since late Jan have 402 mile range. This is just making it official.
Tesla Model S now first ever electric vehicle to receive EPA range rating above 400 miles!  
 Absolutely
China &amp; Asia Pacific Supercharger usage above pre-covid highs. North America catching up fast. Europe slightly behind.  
 Looking likely
_Maelstrom _J_Beck    Throttling is done by adjusting flow to the ox and fuel preburners. The lower limit of thrust is ox &amp; fuel turbopump injector preburner “stiffness”, essentially when do the preburner elements start flaming out.
 Tank didn’t burst, but leaked at 7.6 bar. This is a good result &amp; supports idea of 304L stainless being better than 301. We’re developing our own alloy to take this even further. Leak before burst is highly desirable.
_J_Beck    Yeah. Merlin, using a single pintle injector with cold, liquid propellant, needs a longer chamber than Raptor, which uses a large number of coaxial injectors, despite Merlin being less than half thrust. Propellant enters Raptor chamber as hot gas that’s already mixed.
  Yes
 That’s the goal. There a few known weak points on this test tank, probably capable of more pressure. The second test tank to follow shortly has addressed the weak points.
      _dyce  _Far_Enough  _NP2013 Accurate
      Sure
    Around 20ms. It’s designed to run real-time, competitive video games. Version 2, which is at lower altitude could be as low as 8ms latency.
   It will get even simpler. Just two instructions for Starlink: plug in &amp; point at sky. Can be done in either order.
  Congratulations Kathy!
    Acceptable, if your drivetrain is very efficient &amp; you add a little manga
 _feed As foretold by  
_feed Stonks
lol
 _gvf  Exactly. Chartering a dedicated 747 flight around the world costs less than buying a small, single engine turboprop plane. In the same way, a giant reusable rocket flight is way cheaper than a tiny expendable rocket that can be used only once.
 _com   True
   Battery industry is world champion at bs. “Lithium-ion” doesn’t really mean anything. What matters is cathode &amp; anode material. There are many choices, but nickel cathode with carbon-silicon anode works great.
_com   I thought this was an Onion article
_bnd     Staggeringly dumb
   I got the fuel cell question about 8000 times
    It’s getting Biblical
  Exactly, fuel cells = fool sells
 Renewable energy passed coal in April  
 Worth considering
  Agreed
 Trèy Boucher
 Great point. Many articles are retweeted based on headlines that don’t match the content.
 Actually, we’re on SN30 for Raptor
   Sure. That’s long montage 🤣🤣
_feed Wow
  _Crew  _Doug   ❤️ the laser beam long exposure shots
   Hundreds of improvements in manufacturability primarily (this is by far the hardest problem), mass down, thrust up, Isp up. Current improvement list continues past SN50. As the saying goes, it’s 1% inspiration &amp; 99% perspiration …
_Gardi  Also, insulation of a deep cryogen( which I’d call anything that liquifies nitrogen aka 78% of air) is heavy &amp; prone to heat leaks. H2 is hell.
Tesla factory workplace safety is 5% better than industry average for manufacturers &amp; improving fast  
  Important technical note: due to higher O/F of CH4 vs RP1 (oxygen is dense) &amp; significant density increase of subcooled CH4 (plus no common dome insulation needed), plus cryo strength bump of CH4, tank mass of CH4/O2 stage is almost same as RP1/O2.
  We could never reach 380 Isp with RP/kerosene. CH4 has higher Isp potential on paper, but even better in practice. With CH4, you can reach &gt;99% of max theoretical combustion efficiency, but RP is ~97% on a good day &amp; requires desooting of turbines between flights.
After which they are recycled  
Tesla batteries are lasting much longer than 200k miles / 320k km  
Moreover, energy produced by Tesla solar deployments far exceeds energy used in our factories  
Electric cars produce *much* less CO2 than fossil fuel cars, taking both electricity emission &amp; vehicle production into acount  

Posting Tesla Impact Report, this time with summary points &amp; charts in my reply tweets  
 _feed Haha. Will post summary.
 Combined with SpaceX deep subcooling of propellants to near liquefaction temp of N2, use of common dome (CH4 &amp; O2 liquid at similar temps) &amp; higher T/W of engines enables de facto higher delta-V than an H2/O2 stage
 Quite a piece! I should credit Soviet/Russian engine work in the 80’s as being a factor in deciding to switch from H2 to CH4. They demonstrated excellent performance on test stands, with Isp up to 380 secs.
Wort reading the whole thing  
 _Enough    We shall see …
    Maybe I should retweet the top four or five point. What caught your eye the most?
    Good point!
_Enough    Yes
  (Formerly) mainstream media has systemic negative &amp; political bias about almost everything. Reading major newspapers makes you feel sad &amp; angry. That’s why they’re being crushed by . Likes/retweets of old media are extremely low. Ironic article:  
 Size matters
 Sure seems that way 🤣🤣
  Bad incentive structure
 🎶To meme the impossible meme 🎶
  We’re working on new legs. Wider stance &amp; able to auto-level. Important for leaning into wind or landing on rocky &amp; pitted surfaces.
 Forward thrusters are to stabilize ship when landing in high winds. If goal is max payload to moon per ship, no heatshield or flaps or big gas thruster packs are needed. No need to bring early ships back. They can serve as part of moon base alpha.
 Absolutely
 _Crew  Outcome-based contracting with multiple competitors is vastly better than cost-plus (especially if sole-sourced), as the former rewards results &amp; latter rewards waste. Outcome contracting should be applied broadly within government. The difference in results will be incredible.
Wow, this is extremely important!!
 🤣
  Autopilot prime directive is: don’t crash. What seems fast to humans is slow to a computer. 360 degree low light vision &amp; sonar, plus forward radar enable to be superhuman. Upcoming software upgrades will increasingly show the potential.
Stankonia at  
  Good point
_feed And those who weren’t expecting a ternary joke
  Mars has an amazing amount of water ice
  81m
   Yeah. Even stacking on the pad will be quite an adventure!
 Creating the production system is &gt;1000% harder than building one rocket. This is the truly hard thing.
 It’s insane
     Pursuing all three. Hard to say right now.
Gateway to Mars
     Lot has happened since then!
    3600 tons of propellant, almost 80% of which is densified liquid oxygen
    Haha true
  SpaceX Software AMA
 Yeah, for Super Heavy stacking
 Giant high bay coming soon
Starship Production Complex Boca Chica, Texas  
  What a cute &amp; happy dog!
 Big line at the barbershop
 Thursday
 I guess more people need to get more involved in the party primaries (which is a chore)
The gerontocracy is out of touch with the people
Selling weed literally went from major felony to essential business (open during pandemic) in much of America &amp; yet many are still in prison. Doesn’t make sense, isn’t right.
This will probably get me into trouble, but I feel I have to say it
 Good point haha
Order a Tesla online in 2 mins at  
Tesla Model Y review by Dan Neil  
 Methalox is the right propellant. Should be staged combustion &amp; highly reusable.
_Will    Yes
   About a dozen transfer windows, so ~25 years
   Wow, hard to believe that was 10 years ago!
      Jack is doing his best. I support him.
  Time to break up Amazon. Monopolies are wrong!
 This is insane 
 That’s when all life on Earth will be boiled off. What matters is how long civilization is capable of making the jump to Mars. This could be a very short period of time measured in decades. It took 4.5 billion years to get to this point &amp; civilization isn’t looking super stable.
 So many war stories over 18 eventful years! But Starship can make life multiplanetary, which is what really matters for safeguarding the light of consciousness &amp; life as we know it. 100X improvement over Falcon/Dragon.
Off Twitter for a while
 Starship is the key to making life multiplanetary &amp; protecting the light of consciousness
 Well said
 Definitely not right that the other officers were charged with nothing. What message does this send in general to officers who stand by while another does wrong? 
_banana _feed Where’s the banana!?
Nine years later
 Must be due to relativistic aging 😉
 Brought home by same person who placed it there almost a decade ago
     Спасибо, сэр, ха-ха. Мы рассчитываем на взаимовыгодное и процветающее долгосрочное сотрудничество. - Elon
   _Doug Congratulations Bob &amp; Doug on docking &amp; hatch opening on _Station!
  Sure
 Probably
Dragon docks with _Station in ~3 hours
   _Doug _Station Dragonship Endeavor
5 mins to T-0
_feed Falcon/Dragon are designed to withstand multiple lightning strikes, but we don’t think it would be wise to take this risk
_Crew   Proceeding with countdown today, weather cancellation risk ~50%
 Yes
 Worth noting that, as of Jan 1, Tesla buyers no longer received any federal tax credit. Model 3 led despite this disadvantage.
  We slowed down a bit to allow Supercharger V3 production to get going, but now will speed up!
 More Superchargers coming soon!
 He is great
  human kind

Sunset  
 _NSF Yeah, Atlantic weather review tomorrow morning will determine if we can launch
_Joy Feels so long ago
       Haha true
 😎
 I sure hope so!
Dragon Dawn  
   Thanks Lex!
 Good question  
 Worth reading
_Orbit Sorry to hear that. Orbit is hard. Took us four attempts with Falcon 1.
   Thanks Buzz!
 🤣🤣
  No problem

  Cute as a button
 Fallout New Omaha
  🚀♥️
  His ideas sound sensible, but he was not my or SpaceX’s “brain coach”. I think he maybe gave a talk once.
 5 years ago. We need to accelerate progress towards fully reusable rockets. Cost per ton to orbit needs to improve by &gt;1000% from where Falcon is today for there to be a self-sustaining city on Mars.
   Mars needs to happen soon
Made on Earth by humans

_spacenews  Cool
   Pretty much
  Reviewed design with Franz last night. Even 3% smaller is too small. Will be pretty much this size. We’ll probably do a smaller, tight world truck at some point.
 Haha true! Hard to convey tone in tweets. Many people would probably be a lot less upset if they heard me speak the words.
 🤣🤣
 Astronauts to orbit in 5 days!!
 Fate 🖤 Irony
The medium is the message  
 Time to return
 New New Hampshire license plate?
Open your eyes, look up to the skies
 Когда рак на горе свистнет
 Great episode
 Мне очень нравится звучание русского языка
   Sure
    Jay *really* knows cars! Next-level.
 I’m a big fan of Kathy Lueders!
   🤣
  Mission control at the Cape
 Much harder problem than it may seem
_Crew  _Doug Culmination of a truly incredible amount of work by  &amp;  engineering, along with support of all International _Station countries
 Sure
 Cool group
   _Doug  Astronauts to orbit next week!
 True
 I am … openly moderate
More fun, less shun!
 💕
  Exactly
Cancel Cancel Culture!
    _Stanley   🤣🤣
 Yes
The FSD price will continue to rise as the software gets closer to full self-driving capability with regulatory approval. It that point, the value of FSD is probably somewhere in excess of $100,000.
Tesla Full Self-Driving option cost rises by ~$1000 worldwide on July 1st. Order a Tesla online in less than 2 minutes at  
 Zach made a significant contribution to SpaceX &amp; is a friend. I wish him well as he tries something new.
  _foust Great. Just sleeps &amp; eats, overall pretty chill.
_  Maybe today if we’re lucky
 One of my fav Matrix memes 🤣🤣
When u take DayQuil &amp; NyQuil at same time  
Take the red pill 🌹
 _foust Pretty good, how are you?
_foust No problem
_rowling I still only own 0.25 Bitcoins btw
_rowling Pretty much, although massive currency issuance by govt central banks is making Bitcoin Internet 👻 money look solid by comparison
 Pretty much
 Frankly, I don’t even know what “plethora” means
 True
  Agreed, people have forgotten how much in-person events matter! Also, there’s a lot to see. It’s not just a presentation.
   Making great candy is harder than it seems!
_alex      Maximize the freedom of action of the people
 True
 Great wiki piece!
 Napoleon was incredible. “It is my wish that my ashes may repose on the banks of the Seine, in the midst of the French people, whom I have loved so well.”
The Age of Napoleon by Will &amp; Ariel Durant is an amazing book
   A few weeks away
  Totally. Collective mind control by stoking fear.
 Marx vs Adam Smith -&gt; Adam Smith for the win. Not even close.
 Yes, improvement is exponential
 Yeah. Maybe following individual journalists &amp; citizen journalists is better than publications. The Onion may be the best mainstream media source. Hard to figure out what’s actually going on in the world!
It’s remarkable how often The News attempts to answer the question: what is the worst thing that happened on Earth today?
  Still am
  More or less crazy than reality itself?
  It’s next-level for sure. Reality is getting weird fast.
_Gee_Man Famous last words
 I said run for office, not president (sigh). Who even owns Newsweek these days? I lost track.
 Boring Co will also connect Vegas hotels &amp; airport. Autonomous Teslas in tunnels will provide individualized mass transit.
 We’re going to have to push out the date or attendance will be very low. Maybe do in two parts: webcast next month &amp; in-person event a few months later?
  Hospitals are going bankrupt for lack of patients  
  True (sigh)
  Seriously, Big Candy is suppressing R&amp;D! When’s the last time you heard of a great new candy bar?
 He was critical of large bureaucracies &amp; Napoleon III was indeed a knucklehead
 _open_mind  Fair point, PyTorch is great!
 Capitalism already has many fetters in the form of a plethora of regulatory bodies! I’m definitely against any monopolies/oligopolies where there is a low forcing function for improving customer happiness or an unpriced externality that consumes a common good (eg emissions).
 Probably sooner
   This is happening a lot
 That would be cool!
  Very much agree!
 🤣🤣 Along with several guillotine death threats!
Boring Company completes 2nd Vegas tunnel
In his 18th Brumaire essay (in which he does make some good points), Marx famously said history repeats itself, first as tragedy, then as farce. This is now ironically happening with Marxism.
    Exactly
 Tesla makes the safest cars in the world &amp; our factory injury rate is better than industry avg &amp; tracking to be better than any auto plant in North America. We care deeply about safety at a fundamental level.
 SpaceX has 8000 employees in California, Washington, Texas &amp; Florida. Operating this entire time, as we have national security exemption. Zero deaths or serious illnesses.
 Absolutely. Tesla already went through this in China with 7000 employees. Zero fatalities or serious illnesses.
  The statistics stopped being valid when anyone with “covid symptoms”, which is now almost anything, was counted as having covid
 Well said! Please run for office. The politicians &amp; unelected bureaucrats who stole our liberty should be tarred, feathered &amp; thrown out of town!
  Exactly
  Yes
 Exactly
 Thanks for adding!
Tesla Supercharger usage by region  
Top Marx  
_open_mind  Facebook sucks
  Fair point
Super exciting day coming up!
    The custom styling some of the team is doing over their masks is really cool!
   Exactly!
 Said another way, Falcon Heavy has 2/3 thrust of Saturn V. Starship/Super Heavy will have double thrust of Saturn V.
 Power of F9 today is still not widely understood. It has about same thrust as Delta IV Heavy, most powerful Boeing/Lockheed rocket. Falcon Heavy has triple.
  Yes
 Cost-plus contracting is the devil

   Hi Jared, Colorado is great! I think your policies make a lot of sense.
Life should be lived
 Buca
  Tolkien rocks
 For sure ♥️
  _Law  Best group on FB by far
   Personally, I think we should  
   This is getting annoying. Honestly, I’m not sure it’s even helping their scam!
  Those who always disagree have a closed mind … but, by their very nature, that won’t sink in (sigh)
 It’s not often that the Governor of California &amp; the President agree!
 Thank you!
 It appears that what he is saying is untrue
_boutall     _feed  🤣💕
 Lil baby
 Great
_Dom90 Tough call. Maybe Newton by a small margin. Both obviously extremely smart for a human.
 Wow, great writing!
 🤣🤣
 All other car companies are allowed to manufacture *except* Tesla, you knucklehead. No wonder you got crushed by a computer the size of a pizza box.
 Much appreciated!
That’s pretty much what happened  
_ADEdge  Pretty close. It will look absurdly tall &amp; have a lot more ground support equipment.
 Haggerty actually admitted to NYT that he told his staff to “slow down” Tesla for reasons that had nothing to do with health. Unreal …
  Exactly
   Exactly
 Don’t mislead the public. State said YES, an unelected county official is the problem. Tesla factory in adjacent San Joaquin county is fully operational.
Tesla is restarting production today against Alameda County rules. I will be on the line with everyone else. If anyone is arrested, I ask that it only be me.
  Yes, California approved, but an unelected county official illegally overrode. Also, all other auto companies in US are approved to resume. Only Tesla has been singled out. This is super messed up!
  Thank you Governor Newsom!
 Zork with AI dungeon master
    _jwitt Note is much appreciated
  Interesting
 Yes, this is insane
  Babies rock 💕
 Good summary
 Yes
 That would be great
 We should do this
Thanks for the cool suggestions 😀❤️👍 More fun coming to your Tesla soon!
_sci  For real
   Absolutely
Happy Mother’s Day to other mothers!!  ♥️♥️♥️
 No, I just think you’re a boring idiot
 Message received
 This thread summarizes situation perfectly
  Sheriff Bianco rocks!
 They were amazing
  Absolutely. Moreover, they don’t even need to be tested for covid, just need “covid-like symptoms”, which is a long list, including “feeling weakness”. Hard to die *without* feeling weakness!
 Georgia lifted lockdown 15 days ago
 He is right
 We are a pattern of atoms
 Pretty much
   Exactly
SN4 passed high pressure (7.5 bar) &amp; engine thrust load at cryo
    q t 3.14
   ❤️ u Mom
 Meant to say скучный идиот
 Sorry
 идиот
     I’m not messing around. Absurd &amp; medically irrational behavior in violation of constitutional civil liberties, moreover by *unelected* county officials with no accountability, needs to stop.
   Much appreciated, Mayor Fine!
    Thanks Mayor Mei!  
   Absolutely
   Please voice your disagreement as strongly as possible with 
   Yes, already done
   Yes
_libby Tesla is the biggest manufacturer in California &amp; second biggest exporter
     Exactly! Tesla knows far more about what needs to be done to be safe through our Tesla China factory experience than an (unelected) interim junior official in Alameda County.
    Absolutely, please do! You should be allowed to recoup damages from the county.
   San Joaquin County, right next door to Alameda, has been sensible &amp; reasonable, whereas Alameda has been irrational &amp; detached from reality. Our castings foundry and other faculties in San Joaquin have been working 24/7 this entire time with no ill effects. Same with Giga Nevada.
  Frankly, this is the final straw. Tesla will now move its HQ and future programs to Texas/Nevada immediately. If we even retain Fremont manufacturing activity at all, it will be dependen on how Tesla is treated in the future. Tesla is the last carmaker left in CA.
  Tesla is filing a lawsuit against Alameda County immediately. The unelected &amp; ignorant “Interim Health Officer” of Alameda is acting contrary to the Governor, the President, our Constitutional freedoms &amp; just plain common sense!
 No, I have a license!
_feed B-nut 🤣
Half a 🐝, philosophically, must ipso facto half not 🐝
_boutall         _feed Turns out hobbits are enormous
Once again, I must recommend  
    Glad we could help
 It’s true
   Coming soon
   Yes, this is a high priority
    Operating on a prime directive of crash avoidance, it could automatically intervene when crash probability is approaching 100%
  Pain can certainly be turned off, but we’re not sure what the best initial test case (max goodness for least risk to patient) would be quite yet
   Teslas automatically maintain their internal temperature to within safe limits in case a pet or child is left in the car
   That’s harder than it sounds. Will check with team.
  Ok
 !
     No, but it’s mostly the same as the ship, except for the thrust bulkhead (31 engines vs 6)
_smb  It’s not all about engineering, although that is my personal favorite. Striving to make products or provide services in excess of what you consume is the noble goal.
 To be clear, I do think finance &amp; law are important, but too many smart people in the US go into those fields. Also, too many MBAs.
     Yes, mostly because you can use the ship every week going to the moon instead of every two years for Mars (best case)
    Would be about 10 times that cost for payload to surface of Mars
    Starship + Super Heavy propellant mass is 4800 tons (78% O2 &amp; 22% CH4). I think we can get propellant cost down to ~$100/ton in volume, so ~$500k/flight. With high flight rate, probably below $1.5M fully burdened cost for 150 tons to orbit or ~$10/kg.
   🤣🤣
    That’s pretty much what happened. The cows weren’t sure what to do (not having encountered a rocket before), so first ran one direction, then the other.
  A mandatory tracing app would be insane
      True
   Probably makes sense to have a “Details” section of the app that mirrors everything in the car. Would also allow phone to be used in lieu of car screen if car screen faults for any reason.
  Franz and I do have absurdly similar tastes 🤣🤣
    Would cover latitude of London
_ellis  Yes
 Peak rate of about half that for version 1 is about right, but heavily dependent on users per cell. Aiming for latency under 20 ms.
   It will only work for higher latitudes (Seattle) at first, then get progressively closer to the equator
   Sure :)
  Way more important than it sounds
 Yeah!!
    A fully &amp; rapidly reusable orbital rocket is fundamental to extending life beyond Earth. Propellant cost is roughly a 1000th of vehicle cost (unless using a foolish propellant). Same principle as cars, planes, boats, etc.
    SLS makes me feel sad
  No, they will be smashed beyond repair &amp; corroded
  Yeah, although hydrogen is not a great choice for a booster engine
 A great mystery of the universe
 It’s so tragic that these engines just crash into the ocean every flight
   Roundabouts no problem, but dodging distracted human drivers very tricky!
  _nyker   Looks about right. Ice mining/refining  on Mars &amp; maximizing total system efficiency will be hard. CO2 is easy, as Mars atmosphere is mostly that. Also has good amount of N2, which is important for life.
  In this case, just chilling the gas back to liquid
 _nyker   Yes, converts CO2 &amp; H2O to CH4 &amp; O2. Perfect for Mars!  
  Flare stack flamed out. In a few weeks we’ll be recondensing methane using solar power, so no flare stack.
  Turns on city street intersections is the big one
 Yes. Static fire feeding from fuel header vs main tank.
 Not SpaceX
 His son sounds great btw
  _Station   _Crew 2008 was a super tough year on all levels
 Tesla &amp; SpaceX are the top two destinations for engineers, because you can have the most fun creating kickass technology! That’s why.
  Good for them! About half the US will be mostly open by this weekend.
 Yes
 _Station   _Crew That was the whole company back then. Grew organically from a simple mariachi party in El Segundo.
 U r a powerful 🧚‍♀️👸
Wishing good vibes for all in 2nd half 2020
  _tesla      I mean, this does seem like a time for Dad jokes … 🤣🤣
 _tesla      Orange you glad it’s not entomology?
  Yeah, but stopped doing physically risky things after the kids were born
 Archangel-12  
 SR-71, but yes
_tesla      Not to mention  
 Thanks Maria 💕
 Possibly even flatter!
    Hopefully so
What’s wild is that Super Heavy will have 31 Raptor engines in same space!
 It’s true, the pressure bulkheads are too pointy
Starship SN4 passed static fire
_Neilson Happy, healthy &amp; cute as a button :)
     _ferguson This person is wrong. Why does JD want to believe he got cucked so bad anyway!?
    _ferguson There would be time-stamped video if this were true
  _Station  Should be a lot of fun!
  There are many pieces to the puzzle
_nafnlaus     DKE in a nutshell: we’re almost always dumber than we think we are
    Science is simply rigorous pursuit of truth. Quality of reasoning is all that matters, which means a ten-year-old could be more correct than a physics Nobel Prize winner.
    That would be awesome
   _ferguson This is false. JD’s team put out “video evidence”, but conveniently excluded the date stamp, as it was well after JD &amp; AH had separated.
  Yeah, definitely a future feature
  Levitt rocks
 Important to distinguish died with covid vs died because of covid. Also, distinguish between tested positive for covid or only had symptoms.
  _ferguson Utter moron
 _ferguson Thanks! Something more should be done. This guy has caused massive strife to the world with his absurdly fake “science”.
 _ferguson What a tool
     
     Nope. Thanks!
    Thanks :) Never too young for some ink haha
    
  Boy
 X Æ A-12 Musk
_Neilson Mom &amp; baby all good
_Neilson A few hours away!
 Anyway, we’re just talking about 2% here, so not much. Confident Model S will get 400+ miles as soon as retest is allowed.
 Weird that EPA would deny this. We have precise car logs that confirm it happened. Happy to provide them.
  I hope anything lands
   It seems unlikely right now
   Mostly accurate. Liquid CH4 temp got too high this time. Offloading propellant. Will we retry later today.
 Thanks!
 Commentary is quite entertaining! MST3K
SN4 🔥 soon. Raptor looks so smōl.  
  _ Good chance it accelerates viral vaccines &amp; cures
 _ True 🤣🤣
  What’s troubling is that this doesn’t get humanity a base on the moon or even a small crewed Mars mission
 _ Excuse me, that’s Mr. Bizznizz 🧲. Where’s the respek!? 🤣🤣
 _ There are many silver linings &amp; that is one
  🥜
 !!
_ Exactly
_ Who is running this lame collection of bots &amp; trolls anyway? Try harder! I’m an engineer, knucklehead. Just do “business” on the side.
 Online
Well said, Lord Sumption, well said!
 Ok, we will
  Yes, about a month away from testing Raptor Vacuum
 A little. Will have 31 engines, not 37, no big fins and legs similar to ship. That thrust dome is the super hard part. Raptor SL thrust starts at 200 ton, but upgrades in the works for 250 ton.
Anyone think they can get a good multiplayer Minecraft working on Teslas? Or maybe create a game that interacts virtually with reality like Pokémon Go while driving safely? Like a complex version of Pac-man or Mario Kart?
Minecraft has amazing legs
That was 2.5 years ago &amp; still not even on the moon. Progress must accelerate!
 Pretty much
 What excites you about 2030?
 I don’t want to set the world on fire by the Ink Spots
One of the all-time best songs  
 🤣🤣
   Rocket Rd, Hawthorne CA 90250
   Sure, thanks :)
 Very much so
 Pretty much
 Freedom
  Are we still free? Are we still brave? Hell yeah!!
  Exactly
_feed  _Station  _Crew  _Doug Even Королёв would agree
  Hopefully in a few days
 Haha
 We’re going to try landing Starship on the moon with enough propellant to return to Earth
 How much for some anime Bitcoin?  
 🔥
 🤣🤣
 Reality is its own parrot parody
  There will be no Mars if we let them take our freedom away
 bring it on
 As always, I am optimistic about Tesla long-term
 👆
  Baby due on Monday
 Don’t need the cash. Devoting myself to Mars and Earth. Possession just weigh you down.
My gf  is mad at me
Just one stipulation on sale: I own Gene Wilder’s old house. It cannot be torn down or lose any its soul.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light of consciousness
@_coffee4closers _stocks92 Exactly. How cheaply freedom is sold.
O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave?
Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave
Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there
And the rocket's red glare,  the bombs bursting in air
Now give people back their FREEDOM
Tesla stock price is too high imo
I am selling almost all physical possessions. Will own no house.
  Incentives matter
 Starship is making good progress
 What is real any more
 You got it!
 Exactly
_UNLEASHD   Well said
 This needs to stop
 AI makes more progress
This is misleading to the public
Classifying all deaths as corona even if corona didn’t cause the death is simply a lie
_feed   Great work by SpaceX team &amp; very much appreciate faith in Starship by !
_savage  _Tweet  _nafnlaus  You don’t say …
 Sound reasoning
 Yup
  Sweden is sensible
  Exactly
Why forced isolation is bad  
California HHS server crashed. Maybe it has covid.  
 Yes!
Actual data reference CHHS  
Hospitals in California have been half empty this whole time  
 Bravo !
  Very sensible
 Yes
 Bon voyage
 Hell yeah!!
 True
 Yes, reopen with care &amp; appropriate protection, but don’t put everyone under de facto house arrest
FREE AMERICA NOW
Bravo Texas!  
Give people their freedom back!  
  
   💯
_samuels Which isn’t easy!
Too much the moral arbiter of the world
Silicon Valley has become Sanctimonious Valley
  Starship will be able to launch telescopes over 3X diameter of Hubble
  Hopefully start serving Africa early next year
   Pretty much
 Soon, it will be in tiktok
 Oddly mesmerizing
  Haha true. Great headline. It’s quite hard to have rocket test articles not explode, as they so desperately want to!
  Interesting
    Yes
   Just one. SN5 will get three.
  Static fire with Raptor hopefully later this week
 4.9 bar. Kind of a softball tbh, but that’s enough to fly!
  Great work by SpaceX engineering!
SN4 passed cryo proof! 😅  
 What do you make of the FT claims?  
  FT is saying current death rate is extremely unusual, but you’re saying 2017 was higher. Which is correct?  
Snowing in Texas  
Cryo test underway
  Dark mode makes Twitter feel like night
    How is it considered probable if there’s no covid test? Is just a cough or high temperature enough?
 So dark out there
 Would be helpful to distinguish deaths caused by covid vs unrelated to covid!
 True
 . may be 🥜 but his tweets are 🔥🔥
Interesting …  
 Pace of innovation is all that matters in the long run
Docs make good points   
  Yes, switching soon to a 300 series alloy with higher ductility at cryogenic temp. 301 is good as sheet, but not as plate. Also, a lot of geometric changes.
  Not yet
  Successive iteration of both design &amp; manufacturing. Latter is 1000% harder than former.
 It’s a little dicey tbh. Thrust dome is being redesigned. Current one has four separate layers of steel in some places!
  150m
 Physically ready in a few weeks. Approvals may take longer.
Aiming for cryo pressure test tonight
SN4 passed ambient pressure test
   Romance Mode 🔥  
  Dogecoin Mode
   Great
_irugu 👍 🤣
  Heard same from doc I trust
  No, good chance of RUD (rapid unscheduled disassembly) event, but landing pad is separated from launch pad
 That basically describes SoC 0 vs SoC 1 of our FSD computer right now. Soon to change!
So often true 🤣🤣  
   Improved process I was referring to was cylinder to cylinder circumferential welds to improve cycle time &amp; reduce pucker. Those are still working their way through production.
  These won’t be strictly coupled to ship serial number. Might be on SN5 or might just be used as a manufacturing pathfinder.
 Great labeling tools &amp; talented human labelers really matter. It really is a skilled profession! Importance of good tools &amp; infrastructure is underrated.
_csquared   As usual for most things, building production system for Raptor is &gt;1000% harder than designing it
   It’s also because of the Spitfire engine &amp; wizard
 Pretty much. Being better than human drivers on average is not a super high standard. Autonomy will probably be held to a 300% to 1000% higher safety requirement long-term.
   Progress is good
  Definitely
 Many talented engineers are working on FSD at Tesla. What matters is solving vision at high frame rate in our compute space with low latency between camera frame &amp; actuation.
_Ryan  Sure, we can probably do an update later this year
    Needs to be more than halfway to east coast
   Not saying new Giga will be in Texas, but Cybertruck will be produced there wherever it is, as Fremont is at max capacity
 Yes
  Yes
 I agree
Mythic Quest is 🤣🤣 MTTD
 Mean Time To Dick is a key measure of any given human or machine intelligence system
  Merlin is very simple compared to Raptor
   Width currently limited by size of cold-roll press needed to get steel to full hard condition. Bigger press will be built long-term.
  Absolutely
Great questions from Hack Club!
 That’s hardcore
The Machine Stops  
 Hard to imagine 2030
 Seems so long ago
 Exactly
  It’s great
Welcome  to the Tesla board! Honored to have you.
   👍
@_youhadonejob1 🤣🤣
Starship SN4 tank on test stand  
 Yes, same results are showing up pretty much everywhere on Earth. Contagion is higher in high pop density cities &amp; mortality proportionate to age.
Silver lining is that mortality rate is much lower than predicted &amp; herd immunity much higher. Good news.
   Maybe Cybertruck will have it …
  I’m dying to do super efficient, quiet home HVAC with HEPA &amp; water distillation. It’s weird, but I really want to do it.
 Good one
   Will talk with team. We have a lot on our plate!
  Side camera view looks a little weird, as meant for self-driving, but will review with team. Image will need a little post-processing.
 That is more reasonable, especially if mostly loans. Oil &amp; gas is an important industry without which civilization could not function at this time, but financial support should be proportionate to rest of economy.
 So shall we all
  Yes
 Haha sure
 Good summary
       Coming soon
  Yes
      Yes
      Yeah, it’s named after my friend Joe who suggested the feature
    Maybe just make Joe Mode quieter?
 Private beta begins in ~3 months, public beta in ~6 months, starting with high latitudes
In advance of this, please try to hack Starlink &amp; Tesla Mothership!
There are now 420 operational Starlink satellites 🛰 😉
 _Style New York seeing same results for invasive ventilators as Wuhan  
 Pretty much. We place high value on simulation too, but nothing’s as weird as reality!
  _virus    It’s made of a special dark foam that’s extremely radio transparent, so as not to affect the phased array antennas. Looks a lot like a car sun visor.
  _virus   Solar panel angle during orbit raise / park. We’re fixing it now.
_  _virus   Yes
 _virus   They are in fact being deorbited haha
 _bergeron  Small amount of isopropyl alcohol (cleaning fluid) was trapped in a sensor dead leg &amp; ignited in flight
_bergeron  Sure hope so!
 Frankly, much of the stimulus money is questionable, but this much to oil &amp; gas seems especially so
 Not the greatest use of money
_virus    If this launch succeeds, we will have put up 422 satellites …
  Thanks! We are taking some key steps to reduce satellite brightness btw. Should be much less noticeable during orbit raise by changing solar panel angle &amp; all sats get sunshades starting with launch 9.
  Makes sense
 Nice
  _Style Anything surprising?
 _Style Numbers I was told from Wuhan were 80% to 90% mortality rate for invasive ventilators. Those are not good odds.
_Style When I talked to doctors in Wuhan, they recommended against invasive ventilators &amp; in favor of non-invasive
_Style No kidding …
_NSF  Good article
  Am in Boca working on the rocket with an awesome team, so pretty great :)
 🤣🤣
  Definitely header tanks &amp; nosecone on SN5, hopefully flaps too. Definitely flaps on SN6
 Crazy times!
 Red sky of Mars is Blue at dawn &amp; dusk
 _murphy Check the warranty …
_murphy Guaranteed to make any party more fun!
 Thanks everyone! Still can’t believe I was born 69 days after 4/20 🤓
     Yes. It will even float for a while.
    Yeah, and whole lot more! Aargh, I’m dying to make Cybertruck like yesterday!!
    Thinking about this …
   This is the key paragraph  
     Pretty much
    Mechanically attached to steel studs. Insulation is certainly the intention!
Best political platform ever  
   SpaceX has a lot of experience berthing &amp; now docking with _Station, which is very difficult. Orbital refilling should in theory be easier, since Starships dock with themselves &amp; will be uncrewed at first.
   Great platform 🤣🤣
_Detroit   !!
  Fully reusable orbital rocket, then orbital refilling, then Mars
_J_Beck     10% would be impressive. Anything below a 20% payload hit would be outstanding.
 I sure hope so! This will inspire the world &amp; get people excited about the future, just as Apollo did. It wasn’t just that a few people went to the moon, they went there for all humankind.
  Another reason reported mortality rate is overstated is that dying *with* covid is not same as dying *from* covid. Media keeps reporting former, not latter.
  Maybe 1.5% change to interior dimensions. Still very roomy.
 Probably 3 to 6 months
 Moreover, there is mounting evidence that invasive is suboptimal for covid. If they put Boris Johnson on mask ventilator, but *not* invasive, that tells you something! This article incorrectly conflates invasive as “ventilator”, but makes many good points  
 You’d think they’d at least be Wikipedia-level informed about ventilators! It clearly articulates the difference between invasive &amp; non-invasive. It’s very misleading to the public to claim that only the invasive type are “real ventilators”.  
  My kids loved that one when they were little
 🤣🤣
 _Academy Congratulations again! Starfleet begins …
 _dhawale  The way it should be!
_Academy You’re welcome! Very exciting times ahead for space.
    Raptor is going through many development tests. Merlin is doing acceptance tests, as the design is stable. Depending on how you count them, there are about 6 engine stands operating in parallel.
    No, as the header tanks are quite small relative to main (~30 tons vs 1200 tons). Only uses very tip of the nose.
    SN5
   No, oxygen header tank in nose is important to keep center of mass forward during atmospheric entry
  🤣🤣
  Similar, but seemingly small changes can have surprisingly big effects
  Should be available as an in app purchase next month
 You’re right, will fix
   Good point. Yeah, Remdesivir is sounding very promising!
Orbital human spaceflight returns to the Cape in six weeks!
  Advertising salespeople dressed as truth tellers
 
  Trying have fewer parts, so strakes are unlikely. Some very counterintuitive CFD results in both hypersonic &amp; subsonic regimes. Starship does controlled falling more than flying.
  Flaps, actuator &amp; static aero are undergoing redesign for mass reduction &amp; simplicity
  Will do
 True
  Exactly
 🤣
Good progress, but 18 years to launch our first humans is a long time. Technology must advance faster or there will be no city on the red planet in our lifetime.  
 Pretty much, although we also sent some Medtronic units, which are meant for extreme situations. Those require a lot of work to set up &amp; operate. Should be used sparingly. SpaceX is making the valve at the heart of that system.
 _Padival   It’s a hard problem, mostly due to esthetics, but it’s the future we should have
    Reviewing overall system with vehicle engineering team next week. Should have number then.
    Reduced size by ~3%, center line is more level &amp; lower window sill height
  🤣🤣
   All new
 It is about 10% too small, but lots of fun 😀
  We’re working on increasing dynamic air suspension travel for better off-roading. Needs to kick butt in Baja.
 Karma is real
 Yeah, super messed up
These were based on direct requests from their ICU wards, with exact specifications of each unit provided before shipment
Partial list of hospitals to which Tesla sent ventilators  
  Perhaps you are unaware that Twitter has a search function? The hospitals *themselves* acknowledged receipt of ventilators.
_feed Nice
      All
 Interesting
 So true
  Not to mention Medtronic, who makes the most advanced ventilators in the world, also affirming our help!  
_Alzeiq   I literally have the receipts!! This is so dumb. 🤣🤣
   
   
   
   
   
 . please fix this misunderstanding
   Exactly
 What I find most surprising is that CNN still exists
“Dr. Levitan advocates combining breathing support from a CPAP machine or regular oxygen with comfortable positioning”. Yup.
“Don’t jump to intubation.” — Dr Caputo
   _Wachter A mask or nose “ventilator” with moderately increased oxygen % will help. This is common in hospitals. Intubation, where a tube is jammed down your throat under sedation &amp; you’re fed high pressure, pure oxygen for several days to weeks is questionable.
  _Wachter Sounds about right  
 _Wachter Roughly what is the survival rate of intubated patients? I’m hearing 10% to 20%. Is this overly pessimistic?
 _Wachter I know of two nurses who had their job offers revoked, one in NYC and one in Arlington
   _Wachter We’re working super hard on getting traffic lights &amp; stops released. Reverse summon (auto park) will be part of the core Autopilot software upgrade for FSD later this year.
_Wachter They were, but are they currently?
  _Wachter Interesting
_Wachter We are hearing almost all hospital ICUs have excess capacity. In some cases, 60% empty.
  __tire          Does seem that early use is wise. Solving late stage C19 probably requires two or three mechanisms of action.
    _psyd      _J_Beck Sure
   _psyd      _J_Beck Production is by *far* the hard part. That’s why I’m not super worried about early Starship failures. Initial serial numbers are suboptimal, so would be lawn ornaments if they survived. That said, as lawn ornaments go, they’re pretty sweet …
    _psyd      _J_Beck SN4 won’t get flaps, so can only do flights with engine on. Just did a reset this week on flap, actuator &amp; static aero design. Either SN5 or SN6 will get flaps.
    _psyd      _J_Beck That’s for sure! 😅
   _psyd      _J_Beck I have great respect for anyone who gets a rocket to orbit! It’s very hard. I’m spending crazy hours on Starship design/production. It is truly an honor to work with such great engineers. SN4 is almost done 😀
 __tire          My (again) personal favorite is  
  _psyd       Some of the small launcher activity is cool, especially . Downsides are helicopter retrieval doesn’t scale to bigger rockets &amp; is highly weather-dependent. Also, propulsive landing is needed for moon/Mars. That said, it’s probably right move for small LEO vehicle.
__tire          Vast majority of “ventilators” are not intratracheal, but, yes, jamming a pipe down a patient’s throat &amp; driving in high pressure, pure oxygen is definitely not how we evolved! My personal choice would be mask with moderate pressure at ~50% O2.  
 _psyd       SN26
_psyd       Merlin is arguably version 6 or 7 by now. It’s a real workhorse, but looks so simple next to Raptor!
         The way things are looking right now, the world will soon be flooded with excess ventilators. Even NY is giving them away!
     Fundamentally, Atlas is still dependent on Russia to launch
     Yeah, Atlas main engine is Russian. Great engine, but not US. Also, their fairing is Swiss. I think interstage &amp; payload separation system also not US.
        Tesla actually sent out ResMed, Philips &amp; Medtronic units. Latter is fully intratracheal. My personal opinion is that some ICUs are jumping the gun on intubation &amp; setting PEEP &amp; O2 too high. High pressure, pure oxygen increases risk of lung damage.  
    Sorry, meant to say only US rocket. Atlas V is close, but not yet 100%.
   Tesla *was* saved by an investment in May 2009 from Daimler, not govt. Without that Daimler support, Tesla would have died. Super appreciated!
   Exactly. In mid 2009, Tesla received non-binding approval for loan program actually signed into law by Bush in late 2008. First actual disbursement was Q2 2010, long after BK danger passed. Loan was repaid early with interest. Taxpayers made money on it!!
   Last I checked, over a million dollars less. Moreover, F9 is launching far more often &amp; is only rocket fully NASA-approved for launching astronauts, so that gap is increasing.
  Also, it costs less $ to insure a Falcon 9 mission. That’s the acid test.
 True. Only reason other medium &amp; heavy lift rocket companies are winning any missions at all is due to govt intervention. Otherwise, they’d be as defunct as expendable airplane companies. ULA is powered by lobbying.
To be clear, Fremont &amp; Shanghai will also be upgraded over time, but it’s hard to retrofit these improvements to an operating paint shop
Initial production at Giga Berlin is Model Y
 You will be able to wrap it in any color or pattern
 There’s tough competition for that title, but we will give it our best shot!
Giga Berlin will have world’s most advanced paint shop, with more layers of stunning colors that subtly change with curvature
 This will happen
  We stole that from cheetahs
 In case it’s not already obvious, our product plan is basically stolen from Spaceballs
  There’s a lot to talk about just on the battery front, so, yeah, just that. I guess we could answer some powertrain questions in Q&amp;A.
 Just battery day, but it will be great. Plaid powertrain will be later this year.
_obrien 五輪書
While others party, he study the blade  
 DayQuil or NyQuil?
Happy Easter! Follow the 🐇
 _feed Yes
   Functionality still looking good for this year. Regulatory approval is the big unknown.
  It’s not turned on. Meant for vandalism monitoring in a robotaxi future. Also, the car has transparent windows, so spying has limited value.
Turns out that gun is for the toilet paper  
   Correct
 Yes, this is a real problem. The science is not in doubt.
  Particulate matter from automotive exhausts has a much more serious impact on health than most people realize
    In the future, it will be as strange to have expendable rockets as it would be to have expendable airplanes today. All will be reusable.
    The swivel wing design was cool. This seems like a good idea:  
   Strange, as SpaceX lands on land frequently. Russia has very talented engineers, but they must be given reusability as goal or success is impossible.
 A lot has happened in 8 years
  Good talking to you too. It was an honor.
 SpaceX rockets are 80% reusable, theirs are 0%. This is the actual problem.
  💯 Tragedy
 Tunnels aren’t required for this, but might be the only realistic way to solve for downtown to downtown travel
 🤣🤣
But actually  
 _Woodward_ The Standard Model is amazing for useful predictions. Truly amazing. Dark * seems sketch, but doesn’t appear to matter to our immediate future.  
_Woodward_ … is bs
_Woodward_ String theory
 There’s a bit more to it than that
  You’re welcome!
     _Enough _The_Slayer       😮
      _Enough _The_Slayer       All input is error. When is the fan speed wrong?
   _Enough _The_Slayer       Plaid Cybertruck is what I will drive
     _Enough _The_Slayer       I’m not sure whether that number is lucky or unlucky
    _Enough _The_Slayer       Hard to predict dates right now. Most likely postponed to mid May.
    _Enough _The_Slayer       In about a year. Would come from Giga Berlin.
   _Enough _The_Slayer       You may return the vehicle for a full refund in the unlikely event that it causes domestic discord
 Essentially
_Mujawar .
_ov   Good one
What is simple in one arena is often profound in another
    Ok
Great differences in technology exist in the world about which even hardcore technologists are unaware
  AddLabel -&gt; PersonDressedAsCone
  Certainly no problem for a 144 trillion operations per second computer to make ~15 steering/acceleration/braking maneuvers per second. That’s a trillion calculations between each output command.
 Humans drive using 2 cameras on a slow gimbal &amp; are often distracted. A Tesla with 8 cameras, radar, sonar &amp; always being alert can definitely be superhuman.
 Cool
  Aim for zero velocity just above surface &amp; fall. You won’t fall fast.
 Fine by me
The 20th &amp; final Dragon 1 mission is complete
 Ok
_12   Coming soon
   Definitely
  Probably best to keep control local, but easy to check status from afar
 High pucker-factor landing  
Here you go  
 !!
_lawrence  🤣🤣
_murphy  Puts our basic instincts on a roller coaster
_murphy  Twitter causes id sinuation
   That’s our goal!
_Of_Space  This is awesome!
Starship fuel header tank  
 Like tears in rain
 _murphy Ok
_tesla Amazing 🤣🤣
Music is a limbic resonator
_murphy Nice ink
 Not a question of wanting to do it or not, but rather having anyone there to make sure it gets delivered &amp; works
 Not true
  Cool!
   Love that Gen Shinseki quote!
  Nice color
_murphy Lovable dog ❤️. Mine looks like yours but in black &amp; white.
_M_DeVries 🤣🤣
 True. Each of these engines is also slightly different. Raptor is evolving rapidly.
 It is stable on the ground without propellant loaded, which is an improvement from OG Atlas
  She’s neither here nor there
 Beatrix Potter energy!
 One is Havanese &amp; one came from the pound
 Hard to tell scale, as body diameter is 9m or ~30 ft, but it looks like it could be R2D2 size in this video  
So proud  
Raptors  
     Hard to hide anything from the Internet! Yeah, we’re going to reuse much of the thrust section.
    Exactly. No point in an abort system on Mars, so got to make the core ship super safe.
    Rockets &amp; spacecraft have to operate in vacuum, so maintaining pressure is fundamental. However, this can be made very safe over time imo.
    There are redundant pressure control valves. It’s a new system and SN3 was simply commanded wrong. Rockets are hard.
    If you lose pressure control on rocket propellant tanks, you’re doomed anyway, so might as well go all in
We’re adding this here catchy tune to the music maker in the Tesla!
   Pretty much. Good news is that this was a test configuration error, rather than a design or build mistake. Not enough pressure in the LOX tank ullage to maintain stability with a heavy load in the CH4 tank. This was done with N2.
  👍
Press any key to continue  
  You’re welcome!
u r o k
   Tesla is on second rev of internal ventilator design. Will post an update on this tomorrow.
    Yeah, about $35k with shipping &amp; taxes
   Bought, but SpaceX is spooling up to manufacture proportional solenoid valves for Medtronic (confirmed as critical today with chair &amp; CEO)  
  First Medtronic units from Tesla getting installed in NY metro area. These are for worst case situations.  
 !!
     We’re going to simplify Plaid a little. Was getting too complex.
    Oh sure, good point. Will discuss with team &amp; make available to buy in Tesla app.
   Some progress
   Yeah, probably July 1st
  Hoping to roll out traffic lights &amp; stops to wide US release in a few weeks &amp; probably WW release in Q3 (so many variations in each country!). Very important to make sure this is done right.
 Homelink is 3rd party hardware that increases cost of all cars, but only some people use it, so it’s only installed upon request. Long-term, garage openers are transitioning to WiFi-activated.
  Monty Python &amp; Mel Brooks are my all-time favorites
   _a Northwell seems to be very pragmatic &amp; sensible. Impressive work in difficult circumstances.
 And how to tell if someone’s a witch  
 So many brilliant scenes. Anarcho-syndicalism!  
  We will see what data review says in the morning, but this may have been a test configuration mistake
   It’s true 😀
_a_hill Air quality has a much bigger effect on health than people realize. Credit to Larry Page for making me aware of this.
  Some valves leaked at cryo temp. Fixing &amp; will retest soon.
  🤔
 High quality critical feedback from Munro &amp; Co is much appreciated!
  Sounds promising. Will be interesting to see results of clinical trials.
 For those who care about details  
 You’re most welcome! Impressive work by Mount Sinai team.
 SN3 passed ambient temperature pressure test last night, now doing cryogenic
  Weird that so many troll/bot accounts were activated to attack on this fake issue. Wonder who’s behind it.
   Yeah, very important to provide C/BiPAP devices to *prevent* cases from becoming severe. Once severe (intratracheal intubation), survival rates are low.
  Invasive ventilators are for worst case patients. Survival rate at that point is low, as Gov Cuomo has pointed out. Nonetheless, we start delivery of intratracheal Medtronic units in NYC tonight.
  Exactly. Moreover, all hospitals were given exact specifications of Resmed &amp; Philips ventilators before delivery &amp; all confirmed they would be critical.
  Will call when we reach Mars
  Exactly
  Definitely need a wider span
  Yeah
 Yes, v close! Nice work. Those are V0.9 legs, so major upgrades coming. Need wider span, longer stroke &amp; ability to auto-level for uneven ground or leaning into high winds.
 Interesting
 Y has next-level upgrades, especially body castings &amp; heat pump
  Happy we could be helpful! More available if needed.
   Mass of initial SN ships will be a little high &amp; Isp a little low, but, over time, it will be ~150t to LEO fully reusable
We have extra FDA-approved ventilators. Will ship to hospitals worldwide within Tesla delivery regions. Device &amp; shipping cost are free. Only requirement is that the vents are needed immediately for patients, not stored in a warehouse. Please me or  know.
  The legs extend &amp; telescope out, so are longer than they seem, but not as long as they will be for SN4+
 One day we will
   The S-curve appears to be entering the logarithmic phase
     
 Ok
  
_Games Hopefully, Starship will have enough flight history to substitute for Dragon for NASA missions too

Now on launch stand  
 Seeing friends
Hello from the Inside  
Logarithm graphs coming soon  
 Magnetic personality
 And many doctors are not treating patients, due to fear of giving or receiving C19
_twit  This sounds great
 Can you do a fast antibody test?
 Yes
Would be great to combine blood donations with a C19 antibody test, so you know if you’re immune. Refill blood banks &amp; give donors peace of mind.
  Buzzfeed is a mind virus
 Also makes for a great shelter  
  We will give away all our ventilators, whether we buy them or build them
    Yes. Just as with groceries, the panic is also causing hoarding of ventilators, preventing them from reaching the hospitals where they are needed.
 Biggest value Tesla is providing is precise delivery of ventilators exactly to the ICU where &amp; when they’re needed. There are many ventilators in warehouses, but stuck in logistics/routing/paperwork issues.
 You’re most welcome. Credit to the Tesla team. Will do our best to help in any way.
 Dragonfire
 🤣🤣
 Exactly. Douglas Adams knew what he was talking about.
  Stop! … In the name of love …
   Yes
  . Care to comment?
  Working on that with Medtronic. Given NY pressing needs, we’re delivering Resmed, Philips &amp; Medtronic ventilators to NY hospitals starting tonight.
 Sigh
   Yes

 Physics is the law, everything else is a recommendation
SN3  
  Giga New York will reopen for ventilator production as soon as humanly possible. We will do anything in our power to help the citizens of New York.
    Something weird happened at CDC yesterday. They changed the graph to include “estimated illness onset date”. This is a significantly less rigorous standard.  
   C19 testing in the US over the past week has grown much faster than C19 positive cases. I think we may have passed the inflection point for US cases (excluding NY) already.
   Yes. Is there more? Should be a lot of data by now.
  Making good progress. We will do whatever is needed to help in these difficult times.
This meme proves it  
It’s ducked!
. pls fix awetoekreqt
  True. , this is  accurate. You believe in journalistic integrity, but if something isn’t done, this will continue.
      Have let  know
  This is messed up 
    Both
   Could maybe tap the condensation for water too. Seems odd that HVAC systems make pure, fresh water &amp; just dump it on the ground.
    Thanks Tesla China team, China Customs Authority &amp; LAX customs for acting so swiftly
    Yup, China had an oversupply, so we bought 1255 FDA-approved ResMed, Philips &amp; Medtronic ventilators on Friday night &amp; airshipped them to LA. If you want a free ventilator installed, please let us know!
  Yeah, pretty much. House could talk to car &amp; know when you’re expected home, so temp &amp; humidity would be perfect just as you arrive. No wasted energy.
    This is a way bigger deal than most people realize
   Sure would love to do home hvac that’s quiet &amp; efficient, with humidity control &amp; HEPA filter
   Yes. PCB design techniques applied to create a heat exchanger that is physically impossible by normal means. Heat pump also has a local heating loop to spool up fast &amp; extend usable temperature range. Octavalve is pretty special too. Team did great work. No credit to me.
  The heat pump and rear body castings are a step beyond
 Model Y heat pump is some of the best engineering I’ve seen in a while. Team did next-level work.
 _feed 🤣🤣
 Will do
     Most likely, imo, we will see a significant reduction in the confirmed C19 case growth rate this week. Follow chart at bottom of this CDC page:  
    Exactly
  According to the Italian govt, only 12% of deaths are actually due to C19. This is a significant policy difference in Italy vs most other countries.
_feed Engineering ftw
 Much appreciated
  Have you seen more data on HCQ &amp; Z-Pak? Hard to find.
 Worrisome
 Yup
  We’ll try to get &amp; deliver as many as possible. N95 masks are a pain to wear btw. Less onerous masks are better most of the time.
   Yeah. We have a mask shipment stuck at LAX. Hopefully freed up soon.
_feed Nice
 This is great advice
  _a  Thanks for taking delivery in your garage! Let us know if there’s anything else you need.
   We expect to have over ~1200 to distribute this week. Getting them delivered, installed &amp; operating is the harder part.
  Supply chain logistics — getting masks &amp; other PPE to the right places in time  — is the main issue we’re hearing from ER physicians
  _a You’re most welcome. We’re working on getting other types of PPE too. Ventilators should arrive within a few days.
  Panic is always dumb
  Italy: “On re-evaluation by the National Institute of Health, only 12 per cent of death certificates have shown a direct causality from coronavirus.”
 Close contact family gatherings that mix young kids, who have almost no risk of C19 death, with grandparents who have high risk (especially those with prior lung damage), are one of the most powerful mortality vectors
 We have N95 masks &amp; getting PAPRs. Will have our team reach out.
Just had a long engineering discussion with Medtronic about state-of-the-art ventilators. Very impressive team!
    No problem :)
    Sigmoid (S-curve) is how all physical and mental viruses behave, regardless of containment. Containment reduces asymptote of S-curve. At this point, we have strict containment in US/Europe &amp; should expect similarly reduced asymptote to China.
   Sigmoidal for China, followed by sigmoidal for rest of world
   Fair point :)
    Exactly, both would be false positive. Also, dying with C19 is different from dying because of C19. Vast majority who died had other illnesses too.  
  Up to 80% false positive
  Sure, although ventilator companies definitely know how to make ventilators. Just a spike in demand right now. Also, using CPAP machines for less severe cases &amp; using one ventilator for several patients seem like good moves to meet short-term demand.
 Do you have data on the false positive rate? I’ve heard a wide range of numbers. CDC numbers are almost an order of magnitude lower between high fidelity data (onset date known) and “presumed positive”.  
 Important consideration
 Feels like the plot of Deus Ex  
 A single computer, pump &amp; pressure accumulator would be fine for many patients, but ideally individual valves per patient to personalize care &amp; avoid cross-flow risk
  Yeah, SpaceX is working on ventilators too
 That won’t work for our auto parts suppliers, so, no, our US factory can’t stay open
 Yes, we’re working on ventilators, even though I think they probably won’t be needed
 Interesting thread
  Thanks 💖
 China is operating normally across hundreds of suppliers &amp; all of Tesla Shanghai
  We’re working on ventilators, even though I think there will not be a shortage by the time we can make enough to matter
 Anyone feeling even slightly ill should stay home. Elderly should avoid close contact, even with family members, for now. Those seem most important.
   
  Kids are essentially immune, but elderly with existing conditions are vulnerable. Family gatherings with close contact between kids &amp; grandparents probably most risky.
 Based on current trends, probably close to zero new cases in US too by end of April
 Yes
No new domestic corona cases in China  
 Imo, this professor is correct. Also, growth rate of confirmed C19 cases is dropping every day, despite 10X increase in testing. From Tues to today, was 43%, 24%, 17%. Track this chart:  
  Sounds good, we will connect with your team to understand potential needs
_Mosseri   _Astronauts Yes
  True
 Exactly. My guess is that the panic will cause more harm than the virus, if that hasn’t happened already.
 Tesla makes cars with sophisticated hvac systems. SpaceX makes spacecraft with life support systems. Ventilators are not difficult, but cannot be produced instantly. Which hospitals have these shortages you speak of right now?
  We will make ventilators if there is a shortage
  
 Some helpful data from Italy  
 Monitor graph at bottom of CDC website. New “confirmed” cases, not oft-reported “presumptive positive” is trending to level off over next few weeks &amp; be negligible by end of April. Same pattern as China.   
 0% chance of anything close
  🤣🤣
  How does this compare to favipiravir?  
  Yeah, that will be a great milestone 😀
  Last launch aborted due to slightly high power. Possibly, but not obviously, related to today. This vehicle has seen a lot of wear, so today isn’t a big surprise. Life leader rockets are used only for internal missions. Won’t risk non-SpaceX satellites.
  Yeah, most reflights ever!
 Yeah. There was also an early engine shutdown on ascent, but it didn’t affect orbit insertion. Shows value of having 9 engines! Thorough investigation needed before next mission.
 🤣🤣
Because polygon doesn’t rhyme
 Yeah
 Awe tow co wrecked
Abysmal autocorrect might be the  reason people don’t fear AI
Fear the memesphere
 Wild times …
_potoski    _NP2013 Exactly
 Seems to be happening a lot
 _NP2013 Very sensible. Knows how to handle exponential functions in reality.
  Whether Z-pak works in this situation or not, it’s a kickass med for many maladies  
 If Jamis needs help, he has many friends, me among them
 Pretty close. Design is evolving rapidly. Would be great to flatten domes, embed engines &amp; add ~1.5 barrel sections of propellant for same total length. Also, current legs are a bit too small.
Hydroxychloroquine probably better    
 Sounds sensible
That said, danger of panic still far exceeds danger of corona imo. If we over-allocate medical resources to corona, it will come at expense of treating other illnesses. Track graph at bottom of this page:  
This paper matches what I’m hearing from a lot of smart people  
    Yeah. Fate loves irony.
   What’s worse is that I even told Stanford to check me for the $^#* parasite &amp; they still couldn’t find it!
   Yeah  
  I was first misdiagnosed at Stanford Hospital with viral meningitis, then again misdiagnosed at Sequoia. A visiting doc from San Jose General saw my charts &amp; sent me to ICU immediately. I was ~36 hours from being unrecoverable. So, I take expert advice with a grain of salt …
 Was also given a lot of doxycycline  
 Maybe helpful
 Yes, I received chloroquine via central line through my chest &amp; both arms. Had near fatal case of falciparum. Would’ve died for sure if not for chloroquine. Doesn’t mean it works for C19, but maybe better than nothing.
Maybe worth considering chloroquine for C19  
_feed 👍
     Slight booster length increase to 70m, so 120m for whole system. Liftoff mass ~5000 mT.
Fear is the mind-killer
 Congratulations Giga NY team!
 Some parts will use 304L, as it has higher toughness at cryo temps. Will move to internally developed alloys probably end of year.
    Probably. Raptor sounds different to Merlin.
    Lot of Raptors coming through! Now operating both horizontal &amp; vertical firing stands in McGregor.
 Sure
  Will discuss with team
 Yes
   Once production has exceeded preorders
 Yes
  True
  Pretty much
 Coming soon
 The Permian-Triassic was super bad  
  To be totally frank, I did an image search on my phone &amp; posted without looking closely
 _com Nice work!
 Yes, it’s in my Twitter banner pic
We should be excited about the future &amp; striving to go beyond the horizon!
 Good one
 That’s the goal! 😀
Wacktivism!
And so annoying
Moral condemnation used not for morality, but as a weapon for manipulation is messed up
Moon too
The people have spoken!
  Checking

  Mars is god of war &amp; memes are a form of war … and fun too! Neither will be destroyed. Ceres, moons of Jupiter &amp; Saturn prob come next.
 Sure
To those who quietly help advance the causes we mutually believe in, knowing advancing the cause is the only reward: thank you
 Thank you for your kind words, brother
 Former
Model Y production for east coast too
Scouting locations for Cybertruck Gigafactory. Will be central USA.
   ⚡️
With an epic sound system &amp; woofers the size of a car
@_Sear_  Definitely
  ✌️
 And Rammstein
 Haha true
  Yes, for now
 Ok fine, that was good haha
Tesla should have a mega rave cave under the Berlin Gigafatory
 Lucent Dossier in 2011 &amp; I think I saw  in 2012 but didn’t realize who it was until later
 Busted 🤣🤣
 🤔
Was good maybe 5 or 6 years ago when you could wonder around &amp; find great unknown bands
Too much corporate sponsorship killed the vibe
Coachella should postpone itself until it stops sucking
 Ben &amp; Jerry’s cookie dough is also next-level. Can’t have that in the house. It’s too good!
 Choc milk is even better than people remember. It’s incredible.
Congratulations Tesla team on making our 1,000,000th car!!  
  Market was bit high anyway, so due for a correction
  Static fire &amp; short flights with SN3, longer flights with SN4, but spooling up the whole Starship/Raptor production line is really what matters
 SN2 (with thrust puck) passed cryo pressure &amp; engine thrust load tests late last night
  
 He studied the blade
 Memes are powerful
  Ships with a lot of people &amp; limited medical facilities are a serious issue
 Yeah, that’s a great one
 Fatality rate also greatly overstated. Because there are so few test kits, those who die with respiratory symptoms are tested for C19, but those with minor symptoms are usually not. Prevalence of coronaviruses &amp; other colds in general population is very high!
 Virality of C19 is overstated due to conflating diagnosis date with contraction date &amp; over-extrapolating exponential growth, which is never what happens in reality. Keep extrapolating &amp; virus will exceed mass of known universe!
_Remains  Thanks for taking us through this today. Hopefully, such horrors will never again be repeated in reality.
 Yeah
Accurate
Envelope expanded
_DebH Recent missed landing (at sea) was due to incorrect wind data. If this (land) landing fails, it will most likely be for a different reason.
Rocket will land in highest winds ever at Cape Canaveral tonight. This is intentional envelope expansion.
Final Dragon Version 1 mission tonight
The coronavirus panic is dumb
 Raising art to new heights
 Also, when tech is new, catalog engineering isn’t possible, as there is no catalog. Has to be first principles.
 💕
    We’re making progress. Improved rules are going through the EU standards committees. Hopefully better in a few months.
   Cool, we’re tracking to release more FSD features later this month
  True. Oddly, those who complained didn’t actually order FSD. Perhaps they weren’t aware that the computer is upgraded for free if the FSD option is ordered even after delivery.
Mad respect for the makers of things
Bernie’s tax rate is 0.2% too high!  
 No matter what, we need to pressurize the production system. Rocket design is relatively easy, making one is hard, making many is extremely hard. Manufacturing is underrated.
Sleeving SN2 dome in the high bay  
They have the best coin
Dogs rock  
✌️ bro  
 Track mode V2 is pretty cool. Maybe too complicated to use though? Lmk thoughts for improvement.
  This is vital
Just want say that I support  as Twitter CEO. He has a good ❤️.
 Definitely

  We’re stripping SN2 to bare minimum to test the thrust puck to dome weld under pressure, first with water, then at cryo. Hopefully, ready to test in a few days.
 There’s a puck at the base that takes the engine thrust load. Don’t shuck the puck!
Where’s Flextape when you need it!?
It’s fine, we’ll just buff it out
So … how was your night?  
  Yes, dramatically improved imo
  We need to finish work on Autopilot core foundation code &amp; 3D labelling, then functionality will happen quickly. Not long now.
 👀
_SkyArt  I just sent a note to Twitter to clarify that posting SpaceX videos is fine by us and we paid for rights to Bowie song for the Falcon Heavy launch
_  The competitor should be a drone fighter plane that’s remote controlled by a human, but with its maneuvers augmented by autonomy. The F-35 would have no chance against it.
 It’s not that big really
 Testing Raptor in vertical configuration (on the giant tripod) should allow us to simplify some aspects of the engine design
 It’s not mine
 Definitely! What’s in that sky city thing!?  Needs a prequel even more than a sequel.
   _truth  Sure
  _truth  Posting SpaceX videos is definitely not copyright infringement!
_brorsson  Hopefully, in March. Checking …
 I had no idea this existed. Sounds awesome though!
  Full disclosure, I’m actually a 3000 year old vampire. It’s such a trial assuming all these false identities over the centuries!
 We had the wrong settings! To make the welds super flat &amp; strong, we’re building a heavy duty, custom planisher, but just having the right settings is a major improvement.
 Yes
 3 on SN2
SN2 tank integration starts this week with much less circumferential pucker. Thanks Fronius!
Starship SN1 tank preparing for Raptor attachment &amp; static fire  
 🤣🤣 some are good tho
And that’s why cones were invented  
Tinny  
Rococo is alive &amp; living in our hearts
Woody  
  I did
Battle Angel Starship  
 Teslas in a tunnel. Happening in Vegas rn.
 obv
On a wall in Austin  
 BGII was amazing
Getting there was super hard. Very proud of Tesla team!
Model 3 achieves 350 mile actual range vs 310 EPA sticker in Consumer Reports testing  
   Yes, will also show real-time changes to max acceleration, braking, cornering, speed on gradient &amp; range, latter factoring in route elevation changes &amp; cargo or tow mass &amp; drag impact
  It’s slightly better
 Definitely worth trying imo
 Btw, in some prior tweets I’d said production Cybertruck would be ~80” wide (vs ~84” body width at unveil). This is slightly too small. Will be closer to 82”, but come standard with upper laser blade lights.
 Active ride height &amp; active damping are game-changing for a truck or any car with a high max/min weight ratio
Science has gone too far  
🔭  
  F9 iteration slowed down as payloads became too important to risk. Little change is expected going forward with F9/FH or Dragon. Starship production &amp; thus iterative improvement will be much faster than Falcon. Driving hard for fully reusable orbital flight this year!
  It’s mostly to balance the ship during entry. After delivering satellites, the front is light &amp; back is heavy due to engines &amp; landing legs.
 Sorry, meant to say LOX header tank in tip of nose. CH4 main tank is above LOX main.
 LOX
 These problems are fundamentally intertwined. Building many rockets allows for successive approximation. Progress in any given technology is simply # of iterations * progress between iterations.
 Hardest problem by far is building the production system of something this big. 2nd hardest is achieving full &amp; rapid reuse with payload to orbit of ~2%.
 _ev Probably
_ev Attach wheels to the landing legs &amp; tow Starship to the launch pad
 I rate it two Bugblatter Beasts of Traal up!
High bay for stacking Starship engine bay, propellant tanks &amp; fairing (fka nosecone) sections is almost done!  
  The whole nose tip has to have heat shielding for atmospheric entry at Mach 25+ anyway, so is effectively already insulated well in orbit
  There will be a common area in the forward section with a big window like this. It will be a lot heavier than steel, but not dangerous. Consider astronauts on the moon with a very thin windowed helmet. They were fine.
  Header tanks are only ~2% of main tank volume, so not a big deal. Pressurized volume is still ~1000 cubic meters.
 O2 header tank is tip of nosecone, CH4 header is in the main CH4 tank
 In the order that they were written
Worth reading Asimov’s Foundation  
 SN 2+ will have better fit &amp; weld quality. Later serial numbers will use bigger stampings, so much less weld length.
 The Persuader hammer will fix SN1
Rocket nosecone production in Texas  
  
  Yes
_McConnell Glad you’re all ok! ❤️
   Tim Curry ftw
 🔥🔥 makeup
 Unfortunately, I must agree that these are reasonable concerns
  True, that was pretty impressive
 My conversations with Gates have been underwhelming tbh
 @_KarenHao  Both
@_KarenHao  All orgs developing advanced AI should be regulated, including Tesla
 @_KarenHao  I have no control &amp; only very limited insight into OpenAI. Confidence in Dario for safety is not high.
@_KarenHao  OpenAI should be more open imo
 Initially, yes, but then will make sense to localize closer to customers. Pretty much same plan as vehicles.
Looking forward to international expansion later this year 😀
Tesla is ramping up Solar Roof installation across the USA! Training will be provided, so no prior experience needed. Apply at  
   Direct links aren’t needed to offer service. Starlink will initially bounce signals off ground/ocean relays to get from 🛰 to 🛰.
  🛰 albedo will drop significantly on almost every successive launch
 Haha
 Sorry, probably going to be a lot of rocket pics from  🤣🤣
  _Ryan  X will also improve by a similar amount
  _Ryan  Depends on when car was built, as there are many small hardware improvements, so most will be somewhere in between 373 &amp; 390
 _Ryan  Regulations require calling it something else, so we added +
_Ryan  There’s a tough performance vs range tradeoff. Plaid has absurd performance, while holding range roughly constant.
 Software just thinks the car is less efficient than it actually is
 Many small hardware improvements throughout the car that have been introduced gradually over past several months
 Maybe possible with improved wheels/tires (which would be available to all previously made cars)
All S/X cars made in recent months have actually been above stated EPA range. Will be unlocked soon for free via software update.
Tesla Model S estimated EPA range is now above 390 miles or ~630 km  
Run a physics sim long enough &amp; you’ll get intelligence
  Thanks to all who caught the error 😊
  a=F/m is the most fun
 Editing error. Meant to say Δt≥ℏ/(2ΔE). Interesting that monochrome is roughly a millionth of a percent.
 Frame rate Δt≥ℏ2/ΔE
 The resolution of reality
 Reminded me of The Lady of Shalott by Waterhouse
   Haha
 unNERVing
  _zubrin The joints will have shielding, but it’s hard to ensure a good seal. Transpiration cooling (or simply higher pressure cold gas flow) would purge the area behind the hot gas seal.
 _zubrin Might be used around flap joints
  Will take action
Only the heart senses beauty
  _zubrin Shielding is only needed for orbital speeds
💘 be still my beating heart 💘  
 _zubrin Unfortunately, Starship unlikely to survive LEO entry intact without shielding on windward side, but none required on leeward. Even windward shielding is very light.
_hedgehog 😉
 Whoop whoop!!
Thanks Mom!!! ❤️   
  This does seem high
And some vitamin k too
Ok u can have a little emerald 🤹🏻‍♂️  
 This is incorrect. No air suspension planned for 3/Y. Only S/X &amp; Cybertruck have/will have air suspension.
 Æsthetics
The degree to which SolarGlass will positively effect the esthetics &amp; energy sustainability of neighborhoods throughout the world is not yet well appreciated. This is a very important product.
Tesla April company talk will be from our Giga New York factory, where we make SolarGlass &amp; several other products. Will also offer customer &amp; media tours.
Should preface this saying that feedback from early Tesla Solar roof owners has been v positive. It’s stunning vs a regular roof in person imo. Photos don’t do it justice.
 Its integrated roof &amp; solar, so should be light enough for almost any home
_mac Coming hopefully later this year
 I think will still be better than a normal roof, but adding a heating grid to automatically remove ice &amp; snow sounds like a good option. We have that already on car windows!
 No problem. Snow and ice tend to slide off the Tesla SolarGlass due to lower surface roughness, so accumulates less than a normal roof. Even so, it’s very strong and can be walked on without breaking the glass tiles.
@_mantis_ Sounds should note that it gets less shiny automatically due to dust &amp; weathering. This pic is brand new.
@_mantis_ Ok
_d_Photographr Sounds like we should open a Tesla Center there!
Please let us know what improvements we can make to any aspect of Tesla SolarGlass roof! Critical feedback is much appreciated.
 Probably 6 months or so. 301 is certainly fine for orbit, but SpaceX 30X will be better.
Midsection of Starship propellant tanks  
  Yes, but we want to focus on textured black first, then move into Earth tones &amp; convolutions
 Your comment above: “Who in their right mind would buy an ICE after 2025 knowing its residual value will be zilch? Legacy auto: go EV or go BUST!” is super important for car buyers. Residual values for gas/diesel cars will plummet in coming years.
 Haha
Foundation by Asimov
Mars is to Earth, as Terminus was to Trantor
 Europe &amp; China timing will be announced soon
 Many Bay Area installations are ongoing now
Hard to believe that is high efficiency solar power seamlessly integrated into beautiful roof tiles. Great work by SolarGlass engineering, Giga NY factory &amp; Tesla installation teams!
Order at  
 First two domes in frame are for SN2, third is SN1 thrust dome
Back in Boca  
 Including hypothesizing that this statement is wrong haha
 True
  It’s lame
      Ok
My Mom wrote a book ♥️    
 🤣🤣
feeling cute, might delete later  
  Once upon a time, we were all just hydrogen in a vacuum
  Impressive, if 💯 uncurated. There aren’t many errors. Would be interesting to see how  GPT would perform with same objective.
 🔥🔥cropping
   Haha true
 You’re welcome! Was a fun recruiting event. Great to see all the excitement about helping build Starships.
  Unmodified water tower machines do not work well for orbital rockets, as mass efficiency is critical for the latter, but not the former. Hopper, for example, was made of 12.5mm steel vs 4mm for SN1 orbital design. Optimized skins will be &lt;2mm in places across a 9000mm diameter.
   No, they’re SN1. SN2 to follow shortly. Aiming to be a little better each time.
  Yes, we’re tuning weld parameters to reduce puckering &amp; building a heavy duty planisher to flatten &amp; cold work the weld area
 That said, although substantial capital &amp; engineering is required to achieve extreme precision, marginal production cost of the primary structure should actually be *less* than a water tower, because it’s built inside a factory in volume.
 This isn’t quite correct. An orbital rocket needs precision that’s 3X to 4X better than a water tower, so super precise parts, fixtures &amp; welding are needed. Suborbital is much more forgiving.
SpaceX started with a mariachi band party. Great vibes here in Boca Chica, Texas!
 True
Late night tweets … sigh
  We saw them a lot launching from Kwajalein in the early days of SpaceX
New emoji! Last one comes with free phone hack.  
_Seeley   Great shot
  Anything that doesn’t result in a smudgy image on lens cover glass. If you get a two part hydrophobic coating, probably better just to use first part.
 It begins …
 “The Nutcracker” is tho  
  🤣🤣
 Haha
 💕
What if there was an AI programmed to want to pick as many strawberries as possible, and so it cultivated nothing but strawberries on all of Earth’s land? Then it would be Strawberry Fields Forever!
_feed Nice
  Fine, but that was an easy one
  New fins
 Rococo basilisk
REALiTi made while u wait  
  
 Making progress
All things in moderation, especially etymology
Essentially all quotes can be ascribed to Churchill
No matter how many times u get hangry, you always think ur anger is real — Plato
Guess he’s not left-handed  
  🤣
 Tiny robots with lasers
 Starlink will be great for any sparsely populated areas with expensive or little to no connectivity!
 🤣🤣
Putting that on my LinkedIn for sure
8th hottest song on Soundcloud!!    
Please send your resume to BuildStarship.com if you’re coming to the Starship career day in Boca Chica tomorrow
Starship Concerto in Zero G  
 Yes
 Yes
Giga Texas?
 Uh oh
 Have you tried a hydrophobic spray?
This is mainly for staffing up 4 production shifts for 24/7 operations, but engineers, supervisors &amp; support personnel are certainly needed too. A super hardcore work ethic, talent for building things, common sense &amp; trustworthiness are required, the rest we can train.
Starship career day at the Stargate building (Boca Chica Blvd, TX) this Thursday from 3pm to 9pm!
Going max hardcore on design/production Starship here in Boca. It’s awesome! Feels a bit like a Mars simulator.
 _siegrist   Definitely!
_siegrist   Yes
🔥🔥🔥
    First, we need to make it super safe &amp; easy to use, then determine greatest utility vs risk. From initially working to volume production &amp; implantation is a long road. As with vehicle safety, it will be much harder to pass our internal standards than minimum regulatory standards.
   Ok sure 😀 Btw, we recruit great engineers from almost anywhere in the world, so this shouldn’t be thought of as USA only. Also, work location can be Bay Area (preferred), but Austin (many of our chip designers are there) or potentially any Tesla Gigafactory.
       Intuitively, that should be straightforward to address, but there could be complexities I’m unaware of
       True, it has general applications beyond fast, high precision micro-electrode insertion that automatically avoids the vasculature
    It will ultimately be used to make up for entire lost sections of the brain due to stroke/accident/congenital. Don’t want to get too excited, but the potential is truly transformational for restoring brain &amp; motor functions. There is no other way to do it imo.
   Wait until you see the next version vs what was presented last year. It’s *awesome*.
   Probably this summer
   Yeah, it looks like a medieval torture device, but is nonetheless currently used in many human studies! Not hard to be way better.
 PyTorch is the most frequently used external tool set/library
Our NN is initially in Python for rapid iteration, then converted to C++/C/raw metal driver code for speed (important!). Also, tons of C++/C engineers needed for vehicle control &amp; entire rest of car. Educational background is irrelevant, but all must pass hardcore coding test.
  The profound impact of high bandwidth, high precision neural interfaces is underappreciated. Neuralink may have this in a human as soon as this year. Just needs to be unequivocally better than Utah Array, which is already in some humans &amp; has severe drawbacks.
_Psyche Sorry!
 A PhD is definitely not required. All that matters is a deep understanding of AI &amp; ability to implement NNs in a way that is actually useful (latter point is what’s truly hard). Don’t care if you even graduated high school.
_Gardi Not needed, but will be very useful on Mars due to light speed latency
Tesla will hold a super fun AI party/hackathon at my house with the Tesla AI/autopilot team in about four weeks. Invitations going out soon.
We are (obviously) also looking for world-class chip designers to join our team, based in both Palo Alto &amp; Austin
Dojo, our training supercomputer, will be able to process vast amounts of video training data &amp; efficiently run hypersparce arrays with a vast number of parameters, plenty of memory &amp; ultra-high bandwidth between cores. More on this later.
Our custom 144 TOPS in-vehicle inference computer, where almost every TOP is useable &amp; optimized for NN, far exceeds anything else in volume production, giving you the hardware you need to run sophisticated nets
Tesla will soon have over a million connected vehicles worldwide with sensors &amp; compute needed for full self-driving, which is orders of magnitude more than everyone else combined, giving you the best possible dataset to work with
“At Tesla, using AI to solve self-driving isn’t just icing on the cake, it the cake” -    Join AI at Tesla! It reports directly to me &amp; we meet/email/text almost every day. My actions, not just words, show how critically I view (benign) AI.   
  Unfortunately, this is true. It doesn’t matter how skilled you are if you’re trapped in a giant bureaucracy.
   Desperate times call for desperate measures …
 Only 66 years from first controlled, powered flight to landing on the moon. Now, half a century later, we are still unable to return. This must change.
   Haha true
  The safest place to hide a dead body is the second page of Google search results!
  Trolls/bots just need to be deemphasized relative to probable real people who aren’t being paid to push an agenda or scam. Google still shows bs/scam pages, they’re just several clicks away.
  This was a huge problem for search engines until Google applied the citation relevance principle aka PageRank, among many other things  
  Report as soon as you see it. Troll/bot networks on Twitter are a *dire* problem for adversely affecting public discourse &amp; ripping people off. Just dropping their prominence as a function of probable gaming of the system would be a big improvement.
 The crypto scam level on Twitter is reaching new levels. This is not cool.
  Yes
_feed We should make buildings out of high-strength steel, not concrete (which needs steel in it anyway)
 Nice
Don’t Doubt ur Vibe now on Spotify  

 I appreciate the kind words!
  Those old ladies are wise  
 Meant to say other forms of “the cold”, not influenza  
 There is considerable conflation of diagnosis &amp; contraction of “corona”. Actual virality is much lower than it would seem. I think this will turn out to be comparable to other forms of influenza. World War Z it is not.
 I become Tiesto at night
 🤣🤣
Vibbbe  
I wrote the lyrics &amp; performed the vocals!!
Be … cause … it’s … you

Don’t Doubt ur Vibe  
😅 this song is hard
Hope you’re enjoying the simulation  
Be … cause … it’s … true
 крипто
Releasing soon on Emo G Records!
     Exactly. Mars propellant production will combine atmospheric CO2 &amp; water (ice) to make CH4 (methane) &amp; O2. Will do same on Earth long-term. Short-term, each Falcon flight uses roughly same fuel mass as a 747 flight. Falcon is ~71% oxygen &amp; Starship is ~78%, so mostly not fuel.
 This number won’t leave me alone! 🤣🤣
Just wrote a song called “Don’t doubt yer vibe”
   we r smôl
🕺
_foust  Ok, not so bad
 Who is hating on ISRU &amp; why? Doesn’t make sense.
A friend just sent me this excerpt from a Tesla blog I wrote 14 years ago  
 Tonnage delivered to orbit, normalized to LEO, would be interesting to see
 If all goes well, Falcon 9 will achieve triple digits this year
 Ice
 8.5 bar
Liquid nitrogen cryogenic strength test underway ☃️  
🪑
_sci Matter is extremely fluffy!
Chairs are underappreciated
The stars in Starship’s mirrored hull reflected
 !
_Gardi  Already being done
 Parent material strength roughly doubles, so weld strength is the only real question mark
   First two domes of SN1 are almost complete
 Yes
Starship 9m test tank made 7.5 bar at room temp! Small leak at a weld doubler. Will be repaired &amp; retested at cryo.  
   The good old days!
  We’re working on it
_facts Too niche
 Nice
Meme necromancy  
   Going with nomenclature of Giga [most widely understood location name] vs Giga #, so Giga Shanghai, Giga Nevada, Giga New York &amp; Giga Berlin
   For sure. Giga Berlin will build sustainable energy vehicles using sustainable energy, so net environmental impact will be extremely positive!
    Yes
   Yes
   Exactly!
  Giga Berlin / GF4 will absolutely be designed with sustainability and the environment in mind
  Sounds like we need to clear up a few things! Tesla won’t use this much net water on a daily basis. It’s possibly a rare peak usage case, but not an everyday event. Also, this is not a natural forest — it was planted for use as cardboard &amp; only a small part will be used for GF4.
   V3 Supercharger deployment will accelerate considerably this year

  Yeah, system should adapt to most likely destination &amp; anticipate school, then work, if that’s owner preference
  Definitely
 Ok
 We should have a base on the moon, a city on Mars
    I love that Heart of Gold is moved by Infinite Improbability
   We should strive to extend the light of consciousness into the cosmos
_ Star Peace ✌️
 We’re working on it
 Agreed, v important
 Blazing Saddles
  Working on it
 It’s on the list
Want to play The Witcher game on your Tesla? (you can already watch the show on Tesla Netflix theater)
_Enough  Explains the sad lack of progress in candy research!
 Yeah, doors are 40 ft wide
 Yeah, we just finished two more propellant domes. SpaceX team &amp; supporting suppliers are doing amazing work ramping Starship production.
_Cooney  Nice shot
Improved Accommodations  
 Yay!
_one1   Would like to take a moment to thank Michael &amp; Ze’ev for helping Tesla. It was very hard work &amp; both could’ve just rested on their laurels. Much appreciated 🍻.
 🤣
       Walk this way  
      Great talking with !
  
_one1   Michael Marks, then Ze’ev Drori, but I helped out as co-CEO as they didn’t have much automotive domain expertise
 Dragon trunk from in-flight abort test is in surprisingly good shape!  
_Gardi   _bergeron  Exactly
   _Crew Thanks on behalf of the   team! Thank you also for the support  has provided over the years, without which this would not have happened.
 Haha
Dragon high altitude, supersonic abort test is a risky mission, as it’s pushing the envelope in so many ways
5 mins from liftoff
 Yes

Meteor!!  
 Yes
Best place to view is from the beach. Excitement guaranteed!  
Dragon Spacecraft supersonic abort test coming up either tomorrow or Sunday, depending on weather  
_marchante  What should we change?
 Munro’s analysis of Tesla engineering is accurate, both pro &amp; con. I think he will appreciate some elements of the Model Y body design.
   Even more important for a a reusable rocket, as cost of propellant actually becomes relevant &amp; anything below T/W of 1 is wasted fuel &amp; oxygen
Hehehe  
  Helping to pay for this is why I’m accumulating assets on Earth.
  Loading the Mars fleet into Earth orbit, then 1000 ships depart over ~30 days every 26 months. Battlestar Galactica …
  Aiming for 20 to 30 years, like aircraft
   Yes. There will be a lot of jobs on Mars!
  Needs to be such that anyone can go if they want, with loans available for those who don’t have money
  Yeah. A lot of work is needed for propellant production on Mars.
  Yes
 That’s the goal
 Building 100 Starships/year gets to 1000 in 10 years or 100 megatons/year or maybe around 100k people per Earth-Mars orbital sync
 Starship design goal is 3 flights/day avg rate, so ~1000 flights/year at &gt;100 tons/flight, so every 10 ships yield 1 megaton per year to orbit
Megatons per year to orbit are needed for life to become multiplanetary
 _Big_Mike  That’s about right
 Reaction to Cyberpunk 2077 slipping release date to September
  What’s amazing is how non-linear the effect of gravity is. Starship can travel by itself from surface of Mars to surface of Earth, but requires massive booster on Earth with orbital refilling to get to Mars, which is ~38% of Earth gravity.
  Densification isn’t needed to return the ship &amp; limited cargo from Mars, but it’s an option for increasing cargo return capability if needed
 Fundamental issue with SLS is that it’s not reusable, which means that a billion dollar rocket is blown up every launch! 💯 tragedy.
 Densifying hydrogen is difficult, as its liquid temp is close to absolute zero. Much easier with CH4, which is an underappreciated advantage. Cooling O2 is good too, but becomes operationally difficult at N2 liquid temp, as air is ~78% N2. Entire system wants to drip air!
 Sorry, migh have brought the site down
Starship orbital vehicle SN1, liquid oxygen header tank &amp; nosecone  
 Just saw this today. Tesla refunds in general should be easy to get electronically &amp; certainly through customer service. Will he addressed.
   Very true. What’s really mindblowing is how much energy the sun outputs &amp; how little of it is absorbed by Earth. There is sooo much solar energy. We can solar power all of human civilization with a tiny % of Earth’s surface, which is a super tiny % of energy emitted by the sun.
_DebH   Advancing humanity’s understanding of the Universe is a fundamental motivator for SpaceX! Starship can put giant 🔭 in orbit &amp; on moon. With an occluder, could image 🌏 in other star systems.
_Skeptic One person’s MRI machine is another’s railgun! Made a primitive one when I was studying physics at Penn. Hard to wield though.
_DebH   Exactly. We’ve had good discussions with leading astronomers. One way or another, we’ll make sure Starlink doesn’t inhibit new discoveries or change the character of the night sky.
Great song  
T-shirt is bulletproof &amp; makes u buff!    
  Thanks for mentioning! We should’ve done this ages ago.
  Good analysis, although a bit conservative imo. However, using a high upper bound for land area that’s *still* a tiny % of the US prob helps convert some naysayers. That giant fusion reactor in the sky called the sun outputs a truly staggering amount of energy!
._Station
 They will
_Bagwan We need more emojis!!
And, of course, your car will be able to 💨 in their general direction
 For sure!! This will make for some epic robber confusion 🤣🤣
Teslas will soon talk to people if you want. This is real.  
   Should be able to post video of Raptor on Tripod soon
    Ok, tho could be gnarly
   Destroyed in Dragon fire
  We tried to design a way to save B1046, but not possible 😞
Critical test launch before flying astronauts is green for Jan 18
  Soon
 Hard gothic
 Haha
We are trapped in a prison of fonts
    Yes
 Every tank under pressure is a balloon tank — it’s just question of degree. Starship tanks are not balloon tanks like Atlas in sense that they don’t collapse when depressurized on the ground.
   Everything is compressible, but liquid compression at these pressures is not significant. However, the tanks do expand under pressure, creating a bit more volume. Keeping propellant super cold has a big effect on density of ~10% in case of CH4.
   A given tank pressure is needed to feed the engine turbopumps &amp; pressure-stabilize/relieve compression load on the cylinder walls
   Dome to barrel weld made it to 7.1 bar, which is pretty good as ~6 bar is needed for orbital flight. With more precise parts &amp; better welding conditions, we should reach ~8.5 bar, which is the 1.4 factor of safety needed for crewed flight.
 Great idea
  🔥 &amp; ⚡️
🎶 Toss a coin to ur Witcher 🎶
Phony  
_Correa Haha true
 True
_sci The sun is green (peak photon frequency)
 😉
Bitcoin is *not* my safe word
 x is y
 Sure
I put the art in fart
 Haha spectrum af 👶🏻
 King of the Goblins, Master of the Labyrinth
♥️♥️ Tesla China Team ♥️♥️      Such amazing progress!!
  I haven’t cross-checked RCS pulses with the MLI dimpling on the video, but it’s most likely the cause
 Nice 🤣🤣
 Since there’s only one main engine, which gives pitch and yaw control, roll control is provided by the nitrogen attitude control thrusters
  Looks like a thin, flat, round UFO on a stick. Starlink Terminal has motors to self-adjust optimal angle to view sky. Instructions are simply:   - Plug in socket   - Point at sky These instructions work in either order. No training required.
  Just tryin to grow my follower count on pornhub …
 🔥🔥🤣🤣
 DKE^DKE
 Sprockets was amazing
At Tesla Giga Shanghai NSFW!!  
 At least 4
cgi irl
 Bossart was boss art!
 Haha this rocks!
  🤣🤣
 The Nirvana baby is about a year away from turning 30
  Ok
  Fair piece by Stoll
 Ok
Wikigenius  
  Zip2
_rod_co  People talk about the products they *love*, that touch their heart &amp; bring moments of joy
 Wow, I built my first server room with parts from Fry’s. Ending of an era.
Congratulations Tesla &amp; SpaceX on great 2019! You rock!! Looking forward to epic 2020 ♥️🚀🛰🚘☀️
No one suspected his disguise  
Carlos Gone
_feed  It’s a bit slow
 It’s not ready yet
 Explains 🐈 🎥
  Thanks all Tesla club members for helping out! Looking forward to seeing you there tomorrow. ❤️
Rest in peace Syd Mead. Your art will endure.
  C tbh
_Gardi  Many ways to solve this problem, but the power requirements are much higher than aircraft control surfaces. When moving giant body flaps rapidly, achieving high power is much harder than high torque.
  Building prototypes is relatively easy, volume production is hard
 Headed to Tesla Fremont factory tomorrow to help with vehicle deliveries
 Biting off more than I can chew. Because I’m an optimistic fool.
 Hard to believe it’s almost time to retire Cargo Dragon after a decade of solid service
  Exactly
 Will talk about that on Q4 call
 Yeah, engineering is ~90% of my time at SpaceX &amp; about ~60% at Tesla
Barrel on dome  
  Took me an embarrassingly long time to learn that
  Sounds about right 🤣🤣
  Beyond awesome. He was the real deal.
 Seems so long ago
 Yes
 Also, I hate deeply nested classes in C++. Had to be said.
 The less code, the better! 1 point for adding a line of code, but 2 points for deleting a line. Bloatware is the devil.
 Direct drive using several Tesla Plaid motors in parallel for SN1. Simpler, lighter &amp; more fault tolerant. Rear flaps each need ~1.5 megawatts. It’s like moving the entire wing of an aircraft!
 _   Tesla merch def needs some love, but too many fish to fry rn
 _   Coming …
  Tesla uses that to wirebond cells to module current collectors. Is there a commercially available machine that can weld ~4mm full hard 301 stainless barrels &amp; domes?
   We’re focusing on Boca right now for Starship &amp; Cape is focused on Falcon/Dragon
 Spin start from COPVs so the ox &amp; fuel turbines spool up super fast in unison. A precise start with full flow staged combustion is very important.
  Moving to an enclosed (fairly) clean room environment for SN2 in Jan, although, unlike aluminum, stainless steel welding is not super sensitive. Our main issue here in Boca is that it can get very windy, which affects weld arc &amp; steel melt pool.
 No, will be autogenous from the start, tapping hot CH4 &amp; O2 from Raptor
   Yeah
 Best would probably be an autogenous laser weld, but we need more precise parts &amp; fixtures. Hopefully get that done in 2020.
 Almost everything is different. These parts are stamped vs manually bump-formed &amp; TIP TIG welded vs flux core. Higher precision, stronger joints &amp; 20% mass reduction.
 We use that process for the Raptor nozzle jacket. The knuckles of this dome are stamped in Michigan with a 4000 ton car body press, which costs much less for same outcome.
Almost three now. Boca team is crushing it! Starship has giant dome 🤣🤣  
    Haha true
 muffin or not-muffin
   Crew Dragon is capable of propulsive landing, but would require extensive testing to prove safety. Better to focus on Starship.
  New technology development schedules tend to exhibit a version of Zeno’s Paradox — at any given point, you’re halfway there
  Crew Dragon should be physically ready &amp; at the Cape in Feb, but completing all safety reviews will probably take a few more months
Simulation of first crewed flight of Falcon 9 / Dragon 2020   
8 years later, the simulation is mostly real
   Amazing work by Tesla China team!! ❤️❤️
 🤣🤣
_   Tesla app based payment will soon be rolled out WW. It’s tough making functionality work across so many regulatory domains.
_   Is purchasing through the Tesla app not working?
 _preethi I def believe in the ethical treatment of animals &amp; taking action of climate, but these are mostly separate moral issues
      Nice
 _preethi Renewable energy production (solar, wind, geothermal), improving home insulation &amp; electric transport will do the trick. Vegan/vegetarian helps a little, but isn’t critical. We should take the set of actions that maximize total public happiness!
 _preethi  Ok
_preethi I support people choosing whatever diet makes them happy, but it’s true that everyone going vegan still wouldn’t stop climate change. Moving billions of tons of hydrocarbons from deep underground into the atmosphere &amp; oceans is fundamentally the issue.
_Games 😎
Dam now rly want choc chip muffin
     Slight tweak to the glass needed &amp; then it should be good to go
😮  
    What is the platonic ideal of the perfect candy? Really feels like candy R&amp;D hasn’t improved in ages. Damn candy oligarchs!! [shakes fist at sky]
   Yeah, Boring Bricks 🧱 are def coming, but whole team is focused on getting Vegas Convention Center tunnel operational so people can try it out, suggest improvements, etc. I ♥️ crowdsourcing ideas with people who really care about making great products!
  Certainly worth trying! The objective reality for large cities worldwide is that efforts to solve traffic have not worked well. If we don’t try *something* new, we will be in traffic hell forever.
  Absolutely. Multi-level tunnels can go under buildings, mountains, rivers or anything else &amp; directly connect destinations, like aircraft do in the sky. We just need more of them.
_turrell  Pretty much
  Sure. Trax will get much better &amp; more fun. This is an alpha version.
 No, I said we should build more tunnels. Put trains in them or cars or whatever, but every large city on Earth is plagued by traffic &amp; it’s getting worse. Multi-level tunnels might solve this, so worth trying. If you have a better suggestion, please tell us what it is.
   That might have something to do with it. “Stalin: Court of the Red Tsar” was one of the few books so dark I had to stop reading. If only they’d listened to Lenin’s last wish, much tragedy may have been averted.
  For sure, but I understand the pulse of Twitter pretty well. A sudden avalanche of very similar vitriolic comments from anon accounts usually means someone activated a troll/bot net.
 Thousands of anon/troll/bot accounts suddenly on the attack. Interesting.
  ❤️ you too sis
  Sorry about this. We will do our best. The Tesla production &amp; delivery teams have been working super hard.
  Literally. It was at 40th &amp; Baltimore in Philadelphia before gentrification.
    __Wakefield  _cyber  @_Mikemo Ramones &amp; Bach
   __Wakefield  _cyber  @_Mikemo I hope someone has pics! My Mom came to visit one weekend &amp; was quite surprised by it all, but helped work coat check &amp; guarded the cash with a kitchen knife 🤣🤣
  __Wakefield  _cyber  @_Mikemo To pay rent, we turned our house into a nightclub &amp; charged a $5 entry fee. Looked cool at night, but insane by day … blacklights, luminescent spray paint &amp; metal junk sculptures.
 🖤 you too
 Sounds like a Marxist with style
  Exactly
 Induced demand is one of the most irrational theories I’ve ever heard. Correlation is not causation. If the transport system exceeds public travel needs, there will be very little traffic. I support anything that improves traffic, as this negatively affects almost everyone.
__Wakefield   _cyber  @_Mikemo This is a pretty awful lie. I left South Africa by myself when I was 17 with just a backpack &amp; suitcase of books. Worked on my Mom’s cousin’s farm in Saskatchewan &amp; a lumber mill in Vancouver. Went to Queens Univ with scholarship &amp; debt, then same to UPenn/Wharton &amp; Stanford.
  _cyber  @_Mikemo This person blocked me, so can’t read the tweet. Whats their deal?
  _cyber  @_Mikemo We started Zip2 with ~$2k from me plus my overclocked home-built PC, ~$5k from my bro &amp; ~$8k from Greg Kouri (such a good guy — he is greatly missed).  My Dad provided 10% of a ~$200k angel funding round much later, but by then risk was reduced &amp; round would’ve happened anyway.
 _cyber  @_Mikemo He didn’t own an emerald mine &amp; I worked my way through college, ending up ~$100k in student debt. I couldn’t even afford a 2nd PC at Zip2, so programmed at night &amp; website only worked during day. Where is this bs coming from?
 Pretty much
  Federal
  Probably 2021. Depends on regulatory approvals.
 Hopefully working in Caribbean by end of 2020. Def by 2021.
 _Gesagt Maximizing conversion of mass to aimed photons (pure momentum) is actually the highest possible efficiency, which is why an antimatter drive is probably the best way to get to other star systems with known physics. For “close” stars, a laser sail is good too.
_95 Yes, but it’s too secret
   Hopefully fully operational in 2020
  Boring Co is completing its first commercial tunnel in Vegas, going from Convention Center to Strip, then will work on other projects
 No, he’s still much faster 🐌
These would be road tunnels for zero emissions vehicles only — no toxic fumes is the key. Really, just an underground road, but limited to EVs (from all auto companies). This is not in place of other solutions, eg light rail, but supplemental to them.
 Done by dawn
 That would be a fringe benefit 🤣🤣
Build super safe, Earthquake-proof tunnels under cities to solve traffic
 Flight is hopefully 2 to 3 months away
 We’re now building flight design of Starship SN1, but each SN will have at least minor improvements, at least through SN20 or so of Starship V1.0.
Was up all night with SpaceX team working on Starship tank dome production (most difficult part of primary structure). Dawn arrives …  
 Please stop spamming bleak links into a paywall
  Ok
 Activating engine two …
    It is an honor &amp; a privilege to work with so many great engineers
   The overarching goal of Tesla engineering is maximize area under user happiness curve
   It’s not that these things can’t be done, they just absorb a lot of software engineering time, which has great opportunity cost. There are very few excellent software engineers &amp; merely increasing team size results in awful bloatware.
 Future feature
Turn on auto navigate feature &amp; car will activate traffic-based navigation to work, home or calendar, depending on context, as soon as you sit down. No input required at all.
  Possible, but one step at a time. Anything we release to the fleet has big implications these days. For example, if someone’s on data roaming &amp; video is enabled, they will get a giant cell phone bill. Operating in 40+ countries results in many corner cases!
  Seeing B pillar (diagonal fwd) &amp; side repeater (diagonal back) camera views would probably help for tight situations. We can enable access to these views. Also, no problem to have option to disable auto lock for home.
 We’re building out Superchargers as fast as possible! Need to ramp V3 Supercharger production.
 Phone notification with ability to view possibly relevant still images is no problem. Live video from several cameras is too much bandwidth.
 Most people still don’t know it’s there
Just swipe down on Tesla nav button for car to automatically navigate to home, work or destination in calendar
  _unplugged     If you enter a longer distance than range, system should autonav to optimal Superchargers along the way. Is it not doing this correctly?
 _unplugged     Merry Christmas 🎄🎁😀 Hope you’re enjoying latest software update!
 Yer welcome son
 _unplugged     Car should autonavigate to destinations based on your calendar. If nothing in calendar, should do work in morning &amp; home in evening. Future versions will guess based on prior patterns (if preference enabled).
 That is odd. Try pressing both scroll wheel buttons to reboot. Have forwarded this to service.
 _unplugged     No
    Coming soon
 They should double down on insanity of Cats. Right move.
   Black Mirror
  Parasite
 True
 Needs improvement
  Yes
 He was awesome. I squared R heating is why room temp superconductors aren’t needed to carry power long distances efficiently. Just jack up voltage.
stock art  
Whoa … the stock is so high lol
 🤣🤣
    Big communication penalty for remote work, which means the gain in talent that won’t move has to be very high
   Truth
   Wow, accurate analysis!
  Good point
  Ok ☺️
  Don’t wanna brag but … 🚘💨 was me
 Henry Cavill +1
 Also fake Soundcloud rapper
  _Stevee   Write games
 _Stevee   Yes
  Regarding 2.X to 3 hardware update, that should happen in earnest in Q1. Software feature delta was zero until now, so not much point in doing it before then.
_Stevee   Pretty much, although if there was a way to spend money to solve software problems sooner, I’d love it. The real constraint is finding great software engineers.
   Ok sure
_Stevee   Sorry for the delay on V2.X! We just couldn’t get it all done in time.
   Unfortunately, this has been necessary for many years, but hopefully not forever
  Sorry, it’s been a bit of a struggle. Software team has been working all weekend to resolve last minute issues. Hopefully starts rolling out tonight.
 My wiki is a war zone with a zillion edits. At least it’s obviously not curated! Some day, I should probably write what *my* fictionalized version of reality is 🤣🤣
 Yes 🤣♥️
 Started Zip2 with ~$2k &amp; ~$100k of student debt, rolled proceeds into X/PayPal, rolled proceeds again into SpaceX/Tesla, but these are all companies where I played fundamental founding role. Not right to ask others to put in money if I don’t put in mine.
If Tesla &amp; SpaceX go bankrupt, so will I. As it should be.
Just looked at my wiki for 1st time in years. It’s insane! Btw, can someone please delete “investor”. I do basically zero investing.
Pre VFX cut would be $$$$
 Another milestone
    Sending you healing vibes …
  That’s certainly our impression, but it’s an old version of Tesla software, so effect is limited
 “In-house” 🤣🤣
The real reason for Looper was to travel back in time &amp; stop a terrible calamity — the premiere of Cats!
 _Favreau For sure
Great show 🐼  
Holiday gift ideas  
_of_happy  We’re working on moving more cars to Florida. End of year delivery is intense! Very proud of Tesla team for all their hard work.
 Ok
 Yes
 Ok
 _feed It’s been years
_feed I try so hard with these jokes!
 Starfleet begins
   For sure!🤞
  Orbit is hard. Best wishes for landing &amp; swift recovery to next mission.
  Does it like the smiths?  
  Needs a few more days of validation, then early access, then wide release
Tesla holiday software update has FSD sneak preview, Stardew Valley, Lost Backgammon &amp; a few other things
You don’t hear much about element 43
   No, as that’s OG Mobileye hardware
 Cinnamon toast crunch
  This is quite a thorny hardware problem, as there are many diff versions of mcu &amp; autopilot computer &amp; supporting hardware. Cars last so much longer than phones! Hopefully able to upgrade mcu1 &amp; ap2.0 in a few months.
This mode will show pic of moth &amp; play the smiths
 Lämpe
Tesla Moth Mode (better late than never)  
_ov   Yes, just costs a few thousand dollars &amp; is more complex than a board swap. Bunch of connectors &amp; antennas need to change. We can improve the speed a little with software optimization, which might be enough.
  I think we can improve that with a little software optimization
_ This is a great meme 🤣🤣
 MCU (infotainment computer) upgrade not recommended imo. Isn’t needed for full self-driving &amp; cost is ~$2k for limited entertainment improvements.
Never trust cynics, as they excuse their own bad deeds by telling themselves everyone does it
_lex   Yes, probably &amp; partially
  Some good ideas here!
 Telemetry indicates soft touchdown on the water, so fairing might still be reusable
 Sigh …
  Possibly Excession, but I’d recommend reading Player of Games &amp; Surface Detail first. They’re all great.
 Yes


                Raptor is making great progress! Just finished an engineering review with SpaceX Propulsion. Engine SN 17 is about to ship to McGregor with some holiday style 🎄😀  
               Age of Napoleon is excellent
 This is how we will view fossil fuel cars
 Crossing S-curves standard for tech transitions
 Nice to meet you
Baby Yoda 💕  
 We are literally a brain in a vat. The vat is your skull. Everything you think is real is an electrical signal. Feels so real though.
Games only render what you look at when you look at it, as the compute load would otherwise be impossibly high. Until observed, objects are a probability function, aka quantum mechanics.  
 Blame Minecraft
smol ∩ puppy ∩ math  
 Plausible
Meant to say “is render speed”. Frame rate is locked.
  
 There are 2 type of people: those who understand binary &amp; those who don’t. And those who weren’t expecting a ternary joke.
 Your DLC is $$$$
Way too many paywalls &amp; spawn points
 Seriously, the NPC dialog tree should have more options
Just Read the Instructions
 Of course
If life is a video game, the graphics are great, but the plot is confusing &amp; the tutorial is way too long
  Sure
Root of energy to mass ratio is max render speed of the simulation

Math jokes have a small audience
Kids these days have no respect!  
@_mkavin_  That’s the one!
  It really does
  They smashed the window to steal the radio, which was worth maybe $20. Got a replacement from junkyard. Btw, great deals available from junkyards! It’s pretty fun fixing/upgrading cars.
_g_fischer  Yeah, 1978 320i that I bought in ‘93 for $1400. I hotrodded it by jamming in a 5 speed transmission from a later model I found in a Philly junkyard when the 4 speed transmission failed.
 Couldn’t afford to pay for repairs, so I fixed almost everything on that car from parts in the junkyard. Ironically, that’s me replacing broken side window glass. The circle is complete lol.
 Maybe on Starship? It’s def got the payload capacity …
     _avoigt  _boutall  _Enough  Just wish Russ Mitchell would improve the *quality* of his fiction. Is this too much to ask!?
  Yeah, it’s one of my favorite T-shirts!
 We’ll aim to have it come out same time as truck. Two seater electric ATV designed to work with Cybertruck will be fun! Electric dirt bikes would be cool too. We won’t do road bikes, as too dangerous. I was hit by a truck &amp; almost died on one when I was 17.
 Your Twitter comments are great btw!
Huge thanks to everyone who contributed ideas to Cybertruck. It’s better because of you! ♥️♥️♥️
 This may sound crazy, but asking real people what they’d like in a product is a great way to meet their needs
_John_D  _raj There will be no loss of either
  _raj That will require a full redesign, but probably ~73 inches or ~185 cm width
  _raj True, more for parking at destination. Really needs to fit in same external envelope as a full-size SUV, but with better height control with air suspension, so it can fit in low clearance parking garages.
 _raj We can prob reduce width by an inch &amp; maybe reduce length by 6+ inches without losing on utility or esthetics. Min height is below 75 inches when air suspension set to low. Will post exact number soon.
Speed solves everything  
  He’s def wrong. Solar power is a Gigawatt per square km! All you need is a 100 by 100 mile patch in a deserted corner of Arizona, Texas or Utah (or anywhere) to more than power the entire USA. This analysis goes through calcs  
Super strong roof that generates clean energy, looks great &amp; costs less than a normal roof plus solar panels!  
   Huge admiration &amp; respect for the Tesla China team. Their talent &amp; drive is amazing!
  For sure
 If we create a city on Mars, Earth-Mars travel will be a powerful forcing function for inventing something like warp drive
Launching third flight of this Dragon spacecraft to _Station tomorrow
 Yes
 After a while, hydrogen became sentient
   Bravo, right thing to do! Short selling should be illegal.
 🔥🔥
People often think they’re breathing oxygen, but are actually breathing nitrogen (78%) with a side serving of oxygen (21%) in argon sauce (1%), spiced up with CO2, H2O &amp; a dash of neon &amp; krypton (etc.)
Hydrogen is a light, odorless gas, which, given enough time, turns into people who will make this statement
 Still can’t believe how hard it was to get  
  We sent the nicest person in the company to sit on his doorstep until he at least talked to us &amp; then he said yes
 Tesla was almost called Faraday, as original holder of Tesla Motors trademark refused to sell it to us!
It’s artificial
Do you like our owl?  
  Overall shape is good for low drag coefficient. Matters a lot exactly how you trip airflow at edges &amp; guide air around wheels, like an invisible sculpture.
    Laminar air flow due to a completely smooth bottom is underappreciated
_John_D That’s why Cybertruck has active suspension height &amp; damping control
    Safety work is done by engineering, with passive safety by body/chassis eng &amp; active by Autopilot. Design in automotive refers to look &amp; feel.
   They are dead to me
 It’s a generational thing
 With extreme effort, Cybertruck might hit a 0.30 drag coefficient, which would be insane for a truck. Requires tweaking many small details.  
  Touché
   Just because he has a flamethrower and I have a flamethrower doesn’t mean … um … ok fine I’m Hank Scorpio
This one is deep. Happy Thanksgiving!  
  The finest in apocalypse protection technology! Flamethrower optional.
    🤣🤣
 Def not dainty
__  Yes, Cybertruck will have steel balls 🤣🤣
250k
  We’d be happy to help
  Sure, will aim to do this next week
 Agreed, this will be exciting to see!
 Electric motors also have insane torque. If we load both trucks to the max, electric still wins. Physics is the law, everything else is a recommendation.
Bring it on
  Cybertruck is inspired by games like Halo. Warthog irl!!
200k
 Yup. Sledgehammer impact on door cracked base of glass, which is why steel ball didn’t bounce off. Should have done steel ball on window, *then* sledgehammer the door. Next time …
Cybertruck pulls F-150 uphill  
 Higher hardness, higher strength &amp; doesn’t cost crazy money for ~3mm skins
   In general, this is something Tesla should do
  We should def make it good to hang out there
Cybertruck is our last product unveil for a while, but there will be some (mostly) unexpected technology announcements next year
 Good question. It’s a new variant of 300 series stainless steel, but it also gets cold-worked many times, depending on kilotonnage of press.
 _Stevee  Can be wrapped in any color!
_Stevee  The body panels will actually be laser cut!
_Padival   Long term, it probably makes sense to build a smaller Cybertruck too
  Interesting idea
  True
 🤣🤣
 Really? Ok sure.
 Hardcore body engineers will understand this at a profound level
 Haha true! New manufacturing methods are certainly needed, but then I’m confident it will actually cost less, because of its simplicity &amp; lower part count.
⚔️ Study the Blade!! ⚔️  
  We’re creating this alloy at Tesla. Not a problem to create a lot of it, but we’ll need to come up with new body manufacturing methods, as it can’t be made using standard methods.
 Starship steel decision came first. We were going to use titanium skins for Cybertruck, but cold-rolled 30X stainless is much stronger.
Even bending it requires a deep score on inside of bend, which is how the prototype was made
Reason Cybertruck is so planar is that you can’t stamp ultra-hard 30X steel, because it breaks the stamping press
Excellent review by Marques!
187k
 Yes
 Haha v true
With no advertising &amp; no paid endorsement
146k Cybertruck orders so far, with 42% choosing dual, 41% tri &amp; 17% single motor
 Great analysis
  That would be cool
 Gonna have some sick attachments
 🤣🤣
 Armored Personnel Carrier (APC)
Riding in the Cybertruck
  Sure
Franz throws steel ball at Cybertruck window right before launch. Guess we have some improvements to make before production haha.  
🖤🖤🖤 Syd Mead 🖤🖤🖤  
 We threw same steel ball at same window several times right before event &amp; didn’t even scratch the glass!
Better truck than an F-150, faster than a Porsche 911. Order Cybertruck online at  
  Yes
 Will be an option to add solar power that generates 15 miles per day, possibly more. Would love this to be self-powered. Adding fold out solar wings would generate 30 to 40 miles per day. Avg miles per day in US is 30.
 Tesla 2 person electric ATV will come at first as an option for Cybertruck
 See ya in 2077 😉
Nobody *expects* the Cybertruck  
 Yup
_addicted _Ryan Haha
_Ryan High time we had a Tesla coil!
Cybertruck design influenced partly by The Spy Who Loved Me  
  Coming soon! We’re working to complete the full Supercharger route from London to Shanghai.
Tesla Cybertruck (pressurized edition) will be official truck of Mars
 Of course
  Fun party guaranteed!
Long journey
Tonight
  Absolutely, but to move to Mk3 design. This had some value as a manufacturing pathfinder, but flight design is quite different.
 Maybe won’t need a key at all
 So many reporters gave Chanos airtime when he called Tesla a worthless fraud. Now that he has been proven wrong, silence …
  Gravitas is overrated  
  That would be cool
National Science Foundation, u should add a W to ur name. Would get way more clicks. Ur welcome.

78% of people want to gentrify Mordor
 The China space industry is very impressive
 Cephalopods have a strange intelligence
 _sci It certainly does
_sci True
  Not sure. Maybe write or message carmakers who oppose the environmental initiative?
 Even Toyota, who made the Prius. That is sad.
   Guess I was obsessed with space from an early age. Fair point.
  I’d be way too embarrassed to put that on a Tesla. It’s like a kid’s drawing.
 Congratulations on the Mach E! Sustainable/electric cars are the future!! Excited to see this announcement from Ford, as it will encourage other carmakers to go electric too.
 Exactly! Well said.
 Surprisingly common
Cybertruck unveil Thursday night  
Innovation comes in many ways
  Meaning not fair that Boeing gets so much more for the same thing
  This doesn’t seem right
 True
  Semi-infinite
 Seems likely. 🧝‍♂️🧝‍♂️ = hipsters.
  Right now, trajectory of neuro-silicon symbiosis doesn’t appear to intersect trajectory of AGI. Goal of Neuralink is to raise this probability above 0.0%.
 We fought the Balrog last year
Gentrify Mordor?
 _g_fischer  It was Tacheles
 _g_fischer  Memes are modern art
_B730 _AA_Carmack F8 🖤 irony
_g_fischer  There will be many opportunities for both new &amp; experienced people!
 fomo 4 yolo
 Yeah, makes sense
Congrats to Tesla team on Model 3 winning best midsize car in Germany! 🇩🇪🇩🇪🇩🇪  
Will build batteries, powertrains &amp; vehicles, starting with Model Y
🖤♥️💛 GIGA BERLIN 💛♥️🖤
 Congratulations!
Starlink vertical on the pad  
   Yes
  Haha
    Exactly
   Without a fully &amp; rapidly reusable orbital rocket, humanity will never be a multiplanet species
 Bad logic is always ugly
   Same goes for digital super intelligence denial
 😘  
141 MPGe!
  Yes
  Deleting throttle allows the engine to achieve max thrust on max thrust variant. Other variants will have throttle.
  SpaceX engine production is gearing up to build about a Raptor a day by next year, so up to 365 engines per year. Most will be the (as high as) 300 ton thrust (but no throttle &amp; no gimbal) variant for Super Heavy. Cumulative thrust/year could thus be as high as 100,000 tons/year.
  Raptor is evolving rapidly. Probably wouldn’t consider it to be even V1.0 until roughly engine 50, although probably engines 12+ can be retrofitted for orbital flight, especially on Super Heavy, which is less sensitive to engine variation. It just needs crazy up force!
   Pretty much
_cadle   Exactly! It’s also a far more exciting &amp; inspiring future if consciousness is out there among the stars, than forever confined to Earth until some eventual extinction event, however far in the future that may be (hopefully, very far).
  No, in the beginning, assuming you even make it there alive, Mars will be far more dangerous &amp; difficult than Earth &amp; take decades of hard labor to make self-sufficient. That’s the sales pitch. Want to go?
  So it will take about 20 years to transfer a million tons to Mars Base Alpha, which is hopefully enough to make it sustainable
  As the planets align only once every two years
  A thousand ships will be needed to create a sustainable Mars city
  No problem. We could program Starship to perform Swan Lake in the sky. Minimizing landing burn propellant mass is what’s hard.
 Current global payload to orbit capacity is about 500 tons per year, of which Falcon is about half
 If we build as many Starships as Falcons, so ~100 vehicles &amp; each does 100 tons to orbit, that’s a capacity of 10 million tons of payload to orbit per year
 Payload to orbit per year of Starship fleet is most mind-blowing metric, as it’s designed to fly 3X per day, which is ~1000X per year
 The economics have to be something like that to build a self-sustaining city on Mars
 Gas/diesel cars too
 True
Extremism is so fun! ()  
 Of course!
 Yes
The date is strangely familiar …  
Cybertruck unveil on Nov 21 in LA near SpaceX rocket factory
  Looking into it
  Yes
  The audience of entrepreneurs should try it, not the AF
  Naturally
 This is based on an incorrect Electrek article. The Air Force asked me to speak at a startup conference called “Pitch Day” &amp; I happened to mention Cybertruck. They don’t buy APCs. It’s the Air Force.
  Fair point. Coming soon. We’re making foundational upgrades to the core Tesla corporate OS. 2FA right after that.
 Connected, autonomous cars require great software. Advanced factories also require great software. The car industry is not very good at software.
 More to come
_burrough Yes
  Would be odd to expect anything else
_Cooney That said, most Starship spaceports will probably need to be ~20 miles / 30km offshore for acceptable noise levels, especially for frequent daily flights, as would occur for point to point flights on Earth
_Cooney Wow, 2011 seems like eons ago! With fairing recovery, Falcon is ~80% reusable, but reflight takes several days &amp; requires boats. Starship will be fully reusable with booster reflight possible every few hours &amp; ship reflight every 8 hours. No boats needed.
 Great poem
Great work by SpaceX Dragon team &amp; Airborne! To be clear, we’ve only done 1 multi-parachute test of Mk3 design, so 9 more left to reach 10 successful tests in a row.
 Putting Model S in range mode is the opposite of launch mode, as it minimizes performance in favor of range. Show should be called “Low Gear”!
Tesla Solarglass vs 🎃  Happy Halloween!!  
  Sorry, Drag Times is correct, Top Gear is wrong
 Drag Race Times analysis is correct. Also, there’s a software upgrade for Model S coming out that increases peak power by 50HP, so Model S should beat Porsche Taycan Turbo S by a wider margin in 0 to 60 &amp; 1/4 mile races.
 Walking on a Tesla Solarglass roof is definitely no problem!
Thank for helping grow sustainable energy through solar!
 __lu   Congrats! Shopify is great btw. Nice work.
 The fires are all too real
 Haha true
  …
♥️ snacks ♥️  
  _Station Hard to say with high accuracy, but 4 to 6 weeks is my best guess
Soon, SpaceX will launch  astronauts to _Station!
  That’s significantly improved in current production
   True, my name literally means tree
 If you have autonav enabled, car will automatically navigate either to address in calendar, to work if you’re home &amp; to home if at work. Not sure if that’s in wide release yet, but def in early access. It’s an awesome feature.
Just a reminder that the Tesla Full Self-Driving option goes up by $1000 at midnight on Nov 1 for all regions that have Smart Summon. Order your car online at  
“I always like going South; somehow, it feels like going downhill.”
For Treebeard
  Ok, sounds legit, will donate 1M trees
 Sounds cool. Where are the trees being planted &amp; what kind of trees?
  Making a roof out of kindling in a fire risk zone is not recommended
  We’re changing this from storm watch to disaster watch to cover fires, earthquakes, etc
 Very true. Glass doesn’t burn &amp; melting point is extremely high, so much more resilient than asphalt or wood roofs.
 I hate advertising
Unfortunately, it’s hard to google Tesla solar links due to tons of ads &amp; SEO. Go to   to add solar to an existing roof &amp;   for a new roof with integrated solar.
We don’t make much money on this product, so $1000 actually means a lot
If you’re directly affected by wildfire power outages, Tesla is reducing Solar+Powerwall prices by $1000 as of today
Apologies to those waiting for Solar/Powerwall outside California, as we are prioritizing those affected by wildfires
 So true. Imagine if phones were gasoline powered. Total sales would be like 14 units worldwide! Using oil/gas &amp; being forced to constantly visit toxic chemical dispensing stations will seem so insane in the future!
Homes with solar sell for 4.1% more, according to Zillow. Adding a Powerwall battery is highly likely to increase home value too imo, as security against blackouts is increasingly important.   
  I’d recommend regular solar panels for flat roofs
 Extremely high
 Will do what we can for anyplace affected by natural disasters
US clean energy incentive drops by 4% on Jan 1, so orders must be received by roughly Nov 15 to be installed in time
Tesla Solar plus Powerwall battery backup for 24/7 clean energy &amp; no blackouts at  
  Sure
  
Took my son to play piano for the seniors home in Pasadena. It was lovely to see them smile ♥️
 Thanks to everyone at Tesla who worked so hard over the years to make our Fremont factory successful!
Sandwich time travel is the only explanation  
Physics facts  
_AUE   Yes, you can walk on the Tesla Solarglass roof. In stilettos, if you want 😉  
 Jerome is great! Tesla team in general is the strongest its ever been.
_s_wilkins Yes, wight destruction guaranteed or your money back!
Tesla Solarglass roof  
 Will start at ~2:15. Sorry for slight delay.
 Haha true
Srsly  
  Transparent aluminum is a real thing!  
 That would be cool. Surfaces that see the sun should be alive with power, not inert!
Maybe call Tesla solar roof tiles product Solarglass? Like Dragonglass, but solar!
  Gwynne rocks! Starlink will probably be a little bumpy at first, but then improve rapidly.
🔥
 _Boeree Strange to think that our civilization is only ~5000 years old, if dated from earliest writing. Less than the lifespan of a fruit fly, compared to age of Earth.
To be clear, integrated solar tiles only make financial sense for new houses or replacement roofs. If your roof is more than 5 years away from replacement, solar retrofit is recommended  
California time
 This product may appear simple, but actually *very* difficult to get right
Will do an open call Q&amp;A
  Major FUD incoming for sure … haha
 _memes    _boutall     🤣🤣
 I have V1, but will switch to V3
Tesla Solar Tile Roof V3 launch tomorrow at 2pm
 Sure
But actually …  
Super proud of Tesla team for great execution &amp; support of Tesla customers greatly appreciated!!
Tesla Q3 results:  - Shanghai Giga ahead of schedule - Model Y ahead of schedule - Solar installs +48% from Q2 - GAAP profitable - Positive free cash flow
 The big rear wing is only on for one day for rear downforce calibration. Isn’t needed to set ring record &amp; won’t be in the production car.
 Internal camera isn’t used yet (meant for robotaxi), but that’s a good idea
 Please lmk about your experience and what can be improved
  Coming soon
Whoa, it worked!!
Sending this tweet through space via Starlink satellite 🛰
Homes with solar sell for 4.1% more, according to Zillow  
More carrot, less stick
Very likely that a home with clean power that’s lower cost than utility, plus blackout protection via Powerwall, will have a positive effect on value
PG&amp;E says rolling blackouts expected in California for next 10 years!  
Order Tesla Solar + Powerwall battery for 24/7 clean power &amp; no blackouts!  
Going offline for a few days
       Both at the same time!
_Gardi      More about dealing with failure modes &amp; roll control
     Need to deal with thrust asymmetry from flameout of an engine without forcing shutdown of opposing pair engine, which would double thrust loss. Also, thrust differential doesn’t solve roll control well.
 Common myth, but incorrect
 And so begins the robocalypse …
Tesla wins best headlights award 🥇  
 The final configuration used at Nürburgring to set the record will go into production around summer 2020, so this is not merely for the track
Anyone who’s interested in working on cutting edge manufacturing — designing &amp; building the machine that makes the machine — please consider working at Tesla or SpaceX. We’re gonna take this to a whole new level!
 Tesla team has done an incredible job with Giga Shanghai. Honored to work with them. I’m in awe.
So much respect for those doing high volume manufacturing. It’s insanely hard, but you make a real thing that people value. My hat is off to you …
          Tesla is first American car company to achieve sustained volume production in past ~100 years. Hardest, most painful thing I’ve ever been through, including getting Falcon to orbit.
          Prototypes are easy, but achieving volume production of a new technology is insanely hard
And the lead character is also named Woody  
     Yeah, gimbal SL engines at min throttle for control, so most of impulse goes through vac engines
     Conservation of energy tells you the answer
_Oolsen  _Station Looking forward to Kerbal 2!
    We def could be wrong about this, but it’s actually good to fix high efficiency vacuum engines with giant nozzles in place &amp; only thrust vector engines with smaller nozzles. Don’t need a lot of room &amp; moment of inertia is much lower.
     Also, we’re keeping area ratio low enough to fire Raptor Vac at sea level without flow separation, so that’s leaving a lot on the table
     Couple months, but V1.0 of Raptor Vac is suboptimal, as optimized for speed of development. Isp maybe 365 to 370 sec.
    Max thrust version of Raptor should achieve true T/W &gt; 170. Target is 1.5 ton engine with &gt;260 t-F. Max Isp version should achieve ~380 sec, but T/W probably &lt;120 due to big nozzle. These are just guesses for now.
    Oberth effect is not well appreciated. Value of high thrust low in gravity well is not captured in simple delta-v equation. One of the reasons we favor CH4 over H2.  
    This is true. All that matters is number used in ∆v equation. Propellant residuals are incredibly important, often overwhelming engine mass.  
  _Station Big challenge for Starship refueling on the moon is finding sources of carbon. Probably some pretty big deposits in craters from meteorites. Same goes for hydrogen &amp; oxygen, also in (shadowed) craters.
   _addicted We’re working on a simple initial version of Autopark. Will be safe, but sometimes park in silly places that aren’t actual parking spaces.
  _addicted Yeah, great team!
_ump_er  _Station To be precise, r is distance from center of masses of two objects. Center of mass of Earth is ~6400km, so gravity change is small at Space Station altitude, which is ~6800km from center of Earth.  
  _Station Exactly. And you can on the moon, since it has no atmosphere.
 _Station Most people aren’t aware that orbit (and “zero” gravity) is all about horizontal speed, not altitude. A spacecraft needs to travel about 25 times the speed of sound to stay in space.
  Yeah, will be Raptor vertical test stand. Hopefully allows simplification of Raptor design, as pump shaft wear &amp; drainage is better in vertical config. Also, more representive of flight. Test as you fly …
 _addicted Software
    Yes
_addicted Will start rendering traffic cones in the display soon
  Venus would be very difficult
_truth    True
 Yes, we will
   It is actually called deep rain, as sort of a joke at Tesla. Takes a surprising amount of deep learning to know when &amp; how fast to move the wipers.
  Deep Rain™️ neural net coming soon. We’re not trademarking any other Autopilot neural nets, just this one, because rain is deep.
_mccomb   Yep, good catch
   ♥️ hot pot
  Cybertruck doesn’t look like anything I’ve seen bouncing around the Internet. It’s closer to an armored personnel carrier from the future.
 Those rumors are false
 Coming v soon
Haha
Ms. Chief &amp; Ms. Tree  
 lol
Space Jam should’ve won the Oscar  
 Recommended for sure. Both movies are incredible.
First will rewatch Godfather Part II, then Space Jam
Underappreciated 🎥, will watch!
Is Space Jam good?
_Really7   So it goes
  Sure looks that way
  Nice 🤣🤣
 Solar
 Depends on total system efficiency &amp; how long the propellant plant can run to refill Starship, so 1 to 10MW as a rough guess
 Whoa, that does look good!
 Fair point. Will hold on EU price change until Tesla gets clarity from regulators about Smart Summon feature release date.
French fries 🍟 are the devil 😈  
_truth        ., are you aware that one of your senior journalists (Russ Mitchell) is openly funding a fake charity run by an online bully?
_truth        Super messed up situation!
 Several finesse improvements coming to Smart Summon in coming weeks. Will be smooth as silk.
  Should be much better at this point
Price for fully installed solar plus battery has been reduced ~10% to help those affected by blackouts
 Yes, but probably a year or two away. Lot of fish to fry …
_mittleman Tesla cannot continue to lose money. To achieve our goal of environmental sustainability, Tesla must be financially sustainable or we will cease to exist.
Allows homeowner potential to go completely off grid
V important: pure solar subscription is guaranteed to be a net money-maker for the homeowner or Tesla will take the panels back. Adding Powerwall negatively affects economics, but gives homeowner power protection in event of a blackout.
 When the car is FSD without supervision, ie robotaxi, you’ll be able to earn far more than monthly lease/loan cost by allowing others to use it. Managing a small fleet of robotaxis will be a career for many &amp; much better than driving a single car.
_addicted _r11  Putting panels on east or west facing roofs works well too. Energy loss is fairly minor. Just north facing that’s problematic above ~30 deg latitude.
 😉
 _Arthur Working with engineering team to figure out best way to do upgrade without crushing service team. Will start doing upgrades in volume in a few months, coincident with more FSD features being released.
_Arthur Still working with RDW, the car regulatory authority in Netherlands. Unclear why there’s a delay. Other countries are supportive.
Now that Tesla V10.0 with Smart Summon is out, Full Self-Driving price will increase by $1000 on Nov 1
Get Tesla Solar plus Powerwall battery for 24/7 clean power &amp; no more blackouts!  
  Will be throughout Canada
 It’s something special
  Fundamental metric of good of Tesla is how many years sooner it brings the advent of a sustainable energy future
 _truth          True 🤣🤣
_boutall   I ♥️ Asterix &amp; Obelix!
_truth Exactly
   Ok
Also adding Tesla Solar to our Supercharger stations as fast as possible. Goal is 24/7 clean power with no blackouts.
All Tesla Supercharger stations in regions affected by California power outages will have Tesla Powerpacks within next few weeks. Just waiting on permits.
Sooo annoying!!  

 We’re changing Powerwall Storm Watch to Disaster Watch. Covers more bases.
  _truth 🚀🚘 🧠🕳
 _truth Yes
_truth No change
  Important for Moonbase Alpha!
 Working on it
@_GaryTheBot Even Gary likes it!
It’s really quite fun!
But we call it “caraoke”, because it’s in a 🚘
Tesla software V10.0 comes with karaoke 🎤
 Yes
A Shortfall of Gravitas
_Arthur @_GaryTheBot Next update
@_GaryTheBot siq burn, Gary, siq burn
🦌
Why is there no emoji for dignity!!
 Yes
_boutall Door hinge
the color orange is named after the fruit
_gayer  Will remove
 Thanks for mentioning. Should be enabled on all loaner cars.
_JohnG   Yeah
  Not easily, as requires wire harness changes
 🦶 💨
 I’m in the credits
Worth reading “Human Compatible” by Stuart Russell (he’s great!) about future AI risks &amp; solutions  
  All hardware is at the Cape. Need to do static fire and reconfigure for flight. Launch probably late Nov / early Dec.
 We had to reallocate some resources to speed this up &amp; received great support from Airborne, our parachute supplier. I was at their Irvine factory with the SpaceX team on Sat and Sun. We’re focusing on the advanced Mk3 chute, which provides highest safety factor for astronauts.
 For what it’s worth, the SpaceX schedule, which I’ve just reviewed in depth, shows Falcon &amp; Dragon at the Cape &amp; all testing done in ~10 weeks
_gayer 🤣
   Culture Class is really something
  I hope so
 We’re doomed!
 Hāhā
 Haha true
 Done
Trouble!  
And that’s just the tip of the iceberg
   Agreed
   Good ones
 Agreed, fair point
  Any feature requests?
Given how quickly the world is shifting to electric vehicles, a gas/diesel vehicle bought today will probably have low resale value
💨 &amp; 🐐 sounds too (also, of course)
 Will consider
 Sure
Customized horn &amp; movement sounds (coconuts being one, of course) coming to Teslas soon
   Haha
  We will understand the next question
  True
 To understand the nature of consciousness
 _Fox    It’s true 🤣🤣
   Exactly
 Great list of hotel hacks in this thread!
_truth 🤣🤣
Excited about launching  asteroid defense mission! 
 Let’s go boyz!
  Sorry it took so long!
 Wow, cool! Summon will get steadily smoother until it’s like an expert chauffeur who knows you well.
  Welded steel
 Probably Starlink 🛰 &amp; some fun things
Rosetta by Vangelis is incredible  
  Not sure, will ask regulators
   Enhanced should get it too
 Aiming for this weekend!
  Hopefully, a month or two, although it may be a little silly at first
 Not yet
 First point release update expected to go out this weekend
Over 550,000 Tesla Smart Summon uses in first few days!
_truth Thanks, Tesla team is the strongest it’s ever been &amp; doing an amazing job! Honored to work beside them.
   If 20km works, then orbit
  Great summary of the key points!
       That’s about right, except no sensors. Tile itself is the sensor as it will partially ablate where too hot &amp; have to be replaced.
     It’s all the “secondary” structure that concerns me, not engines &amp; primary airframe
     Raptor cost is tracking to well under $1M for V1.0. Goal is &lt;$250k for V2.0 is a 250 ton thrust-optimized engine, ie &lt;$1000/ton
        Stop sending me this 💩 🤣🤣
          Agreed &amp; such a heartwarming photo ♥️
  I have that exact thought every time I get the flu
 Clearly a sign of the apocalypse!
_feed Lot of ways to melt &amp; join steel. Mostly just needs to be welded consistently &amp; with precise parts.
_feed Thankfully not. FSW is very difficult to get right &amp; not needed with steel.
Production version will be a lot more polished than this prototype, but still fun to see
 Bigger flaps/fins at rear also moves center of pressure back
 Haha yes
 In solving for a good Mars climate, we will learn a great deal about how to do so on Earth. It is the inverse problem.
Inside Starship cargo bay. Header tanks mounted in tip of nosecone to offset engine weight at rear.  
    Cool video!
   Probably our most viral feature ever. Most of the Autopilot team has been working on this, led by Ashok, CJ, Andrej &amp; many others.
_Padival       Good question
 😀
Rage, rage against the dying of the light  
_truth _designs We’re going to use the pedestrian pink noise speaker to talk to people &amp; create customized horn sounds. “I beg your pardon, but would you be so kind as to allow me to proceed?” Said in the voice of Mr. Darcy.
_truth Special light pattern (but not hazards, as they’re too shrill) seems right
_truth Makes sense
_truth  Precisely
To make life as we know it multiplanetary
Starship will allow us to inhabit other worlds
Starship halves being joined  
Summon is improving rapidly   
  _SPACE Just SX500 so far, but we use many superalloys developed by others, eg Inco 718+. If anyone has 718++, that would be helpful haha. Massive engineering work in the casting, printing &amp; machining of Raptor — far more than in design of the engine itself!
 _SPACE There’s so much power going through this engine that it’s close to the limit of the known physics of materials in many places
__99   _SPACE Yes
 _SPACE Well, hopefully closer to 300 bar over time. However, that the chamber/nozzle jacket has so many joints &amp; dissimilar metals at such high pressure &amp; temperature is what I find remarkable about it.
  _SPACE No, we’ve been focusing on production (now on SN12). Only need 250 bar or even a bit less for Starship/Super Heavy. Anything above 250 is nice to have &amp; we’ll get around to it, but not needed for flight.
  _SPACE Probably around 6 or 7pm
 _SPACE What blows my mind is that peak pressure in regen chamber &amp; nozzle is *far* above combustion pressure at over 800 bar or ~12,000 psi
_ Figure of speech
Meanwhile, back in reality
 Media report was false
 _SPACE Raptor uses milled copper channels with an inconel jacket all the way down
Three Raptors on a Starship  
  Always
  Wow, it’s been 5 years since we started at Boca!
 About a week. Will include slight improvements, based on initial user feedback.
 We look for rare corner case issues with a limited release US build, then expand internationally as we receive approval from regulatory authorities. So, soon, but hard to say exactly.
_ Gary, you rock!
Tesla V10.0 just started rolling out to all US Tesla owners with FSD option &amp; “advanced download” selected in vehicle software settings
 More like  
Anonymous bot swarms deserve a closer examination. If they’re evolving rapidly, something’s up.
If advanced AI (beyond basic bots) hasn’t been applied to manipulate social media, it won’t be long before it is
_Wests Exactly
    That would be a nice touch
   This is quite a complex beast, but hopefully within a month or so
  Haha awesome
      We could probably do that
 50m
    Not sure we could go quite that tight, but we can for sure allow much narrower spaces at user’s discretion
   With rare exceptions, composites would make Starship heavier. They don’t stand up well to high temperatures, but steel does great.
  Mk1 ship is around 200 tons dry &amp; 1400 tons wet, but aiming for 120 by Mk4 or Mk5. Total stack mass with max payload is 5000 tons.
   Absolutely
  You’re welcome! Feature requests always appreciated.
  Six. Two windward, one under each fin &amp; two leeward. Provides redundancy for landing on unimproved surfaces.
On the transporter  
Lifting lower section of Starship  
    
  правда
 язык хорошо подвешен
 Exactly
 Impressive work by Chad &amp; Steve!
    Almost entirely C++, but we did have an (advanced for the time) client-side Java app for viewing maps &amp; (weirdly) a 3D hockey game in VRML
   Turbo Pascal
  Mostly C/C++, Python &amp; SQL
   It would be pretty embarrassing to use a non-Tesla battery!
 This includes original engineering of new factory processes &amp; cars. Great engineers will only join if original engineering is supported, not just localization.
 Tesla is building a major engineering team in China, incl heavy focus on software/firmware for factory &amp; car
_ShadowZone  For sure more than one pass coming back to Earth. To Mars could maybe work single pass, but two passes probably wise.
  Could do it, but we developed low cost reusable tiles that are much lighter than transpiration cooling &amp; quite robust
 Better just to ride your max temp all the way down &amp; let T^4 be your friend. Lower atmosphere cools you down real fast, so not crazy hot after landing.
 Exactly. For reusable heatshield, minimize peak heating. For ablative/expendable, minimize total heat. Therefore reusable like Starship wants lift during high Mach reentry for lower peak, but higher total heat.
 It does actually generate lift in hypersonic regime, which is important to limit peak heating
  Many powerful electric motors &amp; batteries. Force required is enormous, as entire fin moves. More about this on the 28th.
 That’s correct. Essentially controlled falling, like a skydiver.
 Herbert Diess is doing more than any big carmaker to go electric. The good of the world should come first. For what it’s worth, he has my support.
 Just sent a note to check
Some secrets are too dangerous to be free  
 “Between the trees and the forest floor, it’s like a giant mural,” continued the veritable High Priest of the Harvest Season, adding that he would soon have to rake his driveway, an activity for which he will most certainly don a cashmere scarf.
    Hoping to open in Slovakia, Croatia, Serbia &amp; most of Eastern Europe early next year. Finally, we will do Nikola Tesla proud by having his cars in his countries of origin!
    OG Roadster is def helping us out here with 826M miles by itself  
   Ahem … well … um …
  Classified as a URO, unidentified road object (from Area 69)
 SpaceX Foundry is used exclusively for advanced alloys/shapes for Raptor, incl our superalloy, SX500
Bottom half of Starship at night. Top half with forward fins &amp; header tanks probably stacks on Wednesday. Three Raptors already installed.  
Raceway &amp; flap hinge aero covers
Just leaving SpaceX Starship build site in Boca  
   Super Heavy rocket will be much like Falcon 9, but the Ship is a strange combination of Dragon, F9 &amp; a skydiver.
 😉
   Approximately correct. We also fire the ACS thrusters to rotate the vehicle &amp; ignite Raptors at full gimbal angle to complete the turn.
  For aero control, it comes down to % of cross-sectional area moving vs not. Flexible as to whether front or rear, so long as within bounds of center of mass &amp; pressure.
 Current analysis, which I’m not fully bought into, suggests that 2 rear fins with separate airframe-mounted legs will be lighter, so this is the plan for Mk1/Mk2
 Stability is controlled by (very) rapid movement of rear &amp; fwd fins during entry &amp; landing, as well as ACS thrusters. The smaller leeward “fin” would simply be used as a leg.
 Stability is not an issue with 3
 Nose tip has forward movable fins, cold gas attitude control thrusters, header tanks for landing, composite pressure vessels, several large batteries, etc. Placed up there to balance high mass of Raptors &amp; rear fins at the bottom.
 Yes. There’s a huge amount of hardware in the tip of the faring that being integrated on the ground, which is why we haven’t closed it out.
Adding the rear moving fins to Starship Mk1 in Boca Chica, Texas  
 Thanks!
Either way, sustainable energy wins!!
 srsly
   It’s my 🔥 glasses 😉
   Sure. Have to do it on Mars from beginning. Will ultimately do that on Earth too, so rocket flights will be zero net carbon long-term.
  Next quarter
  Will discuss with my product team next week, but probably
  Yes
 Great work by SpaceX parachute engineering! The Crew Dragon parachutes are way more difficult than they may seem. The Apollo program found them to be so hard that it became a notable morale problem!
   A 16 year old who has better reasoning &amp; more heart than the vast majority of political leaders
  That’s what life was like back in 1985
 You have been warned  
  _truth No, it’s one integrated release
 _truth Fixing several minor bugs &amp; a regression in highway driving, so probably early to mid next week
  Much better chess engine coming
_truth Well said
 Very meaningful action by the company that invented the internal combustion engine. People will remember this day. Respect.
Electric is the future! Congratulations Daimler!!
   Nice compression
  And of course, this one, but that’s obv  
  e^👁🥧 + 1 = 0
 For some reason, I always loved this formula
 Whoa cool
 “Smart” Summon will work on all v2.0+ hardware in wide release
   L'Ambroisie, Place des Vosges
 Nice
Amazingly, this is not an Onion article
@_jameshatfield_    
  Je ne regrette Etienne
 Lane offset should be much better in V10.0
  Yes
Told you AI was dangerous!! 🔥💣💦
 In other news …
 Busted
   A little, but this is mostly a design update for those interested
  Haha
 Apollo
  Landing leg frame
 Yes
  Glad you’re ok!
    You never know …
_Ryan   Exactly
    Actually, Model 3 would beat the Taycan on Nürburgring over multiple laps, as it has more range
   No, but very close
  Rear facing, but roomier. Great for family gatherings! I did a road trip across America with my five boys &amp; Talulah in the 7 seat Model S several years ago.
  Absolutely
  New Roadster and X will come later
  No, original 5 forward facing seats plus 2 rear-facing smaller seats. The new rear seats will accommodate larger passengers than before.
 It’s a start. We expect these track times to be beaten by the actual production 7 seat Model S Plaid variant that goes into production around Oct/Nov next year.
 Thanks, I will stop by on the 20th!
  They’re available through the app, but we need to make them easier to find
Area 51 of Area 51  
Droid Junkyard, Tatooine  
 Absolutely
 Feeling Lucky (Google tribute!) or Hungry are 100% intended for max enjoyment of Tesla owner. If location has destination chargers, that’s a plus, but car should only route there if location is great. This will be hit &amp; miss initially, but should hone towards excellent over time.
__Enchev 10.1
      Great conversation-starter!
 Damn …
     I want this T-shirt!
    Service center expansion is at max speed, so yes
  Sure, I’m planning on meeting community supporters around the presentation on the 28th. Thanks!
 Maybe we can buffer enough of it onboard. Will check.
  🚀♥️ Starship Team ♥️🚀
  That’s what we believe is highly likely
 I ♥️ visiting Boca Chica, Brownsville &amp; Texas in general! Thanks for all your support!!
     Getting close
 Yes, coming soon
 Oh that would be fun. Will see.
Joe Mode is the best mode
Thanks Tesla owners. You rock!! ♥️♥️
_ Wise words from Gary the Bot
However, we won’t customize the contract or engage in negotiations. That just causes the Tesla &amp; customer legal bill to be high &amp; drag things out. Pay for clean power, not lawyers! It makes way more sense.
Good analysis. You can order commercial solar in literally 30 secs if you use Apple Pay at  
    Exactly! We’ve only one car factory in California &amp; one Gigafactory (for batteries &amp; drive units) in Nevada. Giga Shanghai will do cars, batteries &amp; drive units for the greater China area. Over time, regional Gigafactories will lower costs &amp; improve logistics worldwide.
   Should note that these product mix &amp; logistics errors also results in regional *undersupply*, eg UK &amp; Ireland right now, but we don’t raise the prices even so. The intent, at any given moment in time, is: heads we lose, tails buyers win.
   That’s not to say that Tesla people somewhere in the world are being overzealous &amp; possibly overstepping our core principles, which is why I’m looking into it
   At end of quarter, there is always some error in product mix allocation between the roughly 40 global regions, due to planning mistakes &amp; logistics problems (Earth is a big place). Small changes in prices are needed to correct local supply/demand imbalances.
  The fundamental operating principle is that prices, while they may change, will change for all equally &amp; should never be a function of bargaining. This is normal for most products, but weirdly not for the auto industry in most parts of the world.
    Agreed
   Going to early access (including all who bought FSD) Tesla owners in US next week. If US early access rollout looks good, then rest of world early access owners following week. Might be some delays in EU for regulatory approval.
  There aren’t really meant to be “Tesla incentives”, just general price changes to reflect optimal value of product, as we sometimes get prices of some variants wrong or need to (partially) address shifts in tax incentives. Overarching principle, however, is same deal for all.
 Looking into this. A fundamental premise of Tesla is that everyone is offered same terms at same time, ie what you get should never be a function of bargaining.
  Hopefully, next year
 Personally, I think the universe looks great for 12 billion years, let alone 13.8
 Sagan was awesome
 They used to have butt bellows for blowing smoke up your … along the Thames River in London  
 Haha exactly!
 Yes
_ Yes, that’s exactly what I meant, Gary the Bot!
Tesla commercial solar ordering now live at  
          At least they had great cigars 👍  
 Ahem  
 _Nawfel _sci A Speedraptor is a Velociraptor with no sense of direction (that’s how you can them apart)
 _Nawfel _sci This is technically a Speedraptor
 Autopilot active crash prevention keeps getting better, as we examine every crash for improvement &amp; then upload smarter software. Ironically, I hope we’re never on the list!
_Nawfel _sci v^2/r is fun haha
_sci Makes it clear that you can only sense acceleration, not velocity
 The downward spiral …
  Good point
 To carry 7 people
Model S at Nürburgring has 7 seats
     All great! ♥️ Mel Brooks
    Spaceballs
   Flux capacitor option package
  Yes
 Soon
 Yes. To be clear, Plaid powertrain is about a year away from production &amp; applies to S,X &amp; Roadster, but not 3 or Y. Will cost more than our current offerings, but less than competitors.
 No
The only thing beyond Ludicrous is Plaid
_g_fischer    A Flock of Bricks
  Next year
    Cuphead
   Of course
  Polytopia
 This could be good
 But we probably won’t try for best lap time this week, as we need to review &amp; tune Model S thoroughly for safety on Nürburgring, especially Flugplatz section
 Model S is already there
Model S just set record for fastest 4 door ever at Laguna Seca, video tmrw
  🤣🤣
DMT FTW  
Getting ready for flight of orbit-class Starship design
    Aargh!!
   No, but that was an epic piece at a time when the word was being overrun by demented versions of an otherwise delightful jam container. It was like World War Z, but mason jars …
  I’d love to
obv
 _cook 👍
  For sure!
♥️♥️🇮🇸🇮🇸 Ísland 🇮🇸🇮🇸♥️♥️
_Games Will be answered on 28th
_truth Exactly
_  Looks good
  The mechanical attachment mechanism. We need to make sure they won’t fall off due to vibration &amp; acoustics.
_mccomb  48 61 20 68 61
 The hex tiles are actually mechanically attached, which is important to allow for very high temp on back side of tile that would destroy any adhesive. Marshmellow-looking thing is a rope seal.
        Failure rate is actually both higher &amp; lower than that, as the Falcon 9 design has changed almost completely several times. Currently flying version has no failures (may fate continue to be merciful), but older versions therefore have a higher failure rate.
     Precisely
    Distance from fireball is 0.5*a*t^2, so if t is small, you haven’t moved far even if a is high. At ~6g thrust, you’ll only travel ~0.03m in 100 ms. Pressure wave (aka explosion) with liquid rockets is low, as ox &amp; fuel are poorly mixed. If you can fly out of it, you’re prob ok.
      🤣🤣
     You know destination weather before departure &amp; there’s no weather in space
     Everything happens so fast. It’s such a different paradigm that applying aircraft concepts to rockets is almost like applying shipping concepts to aircraft. Travels 10,000 km in 30 mins.
    Not currently planning for pad abort with early Starships, but maybe we should. Vac engines would be dual bell &amp; fixed (no gimbal), which means we can stabilize nozzle against hull.
    Raptor turbines can spin up extremely fast. We take it easy on the test stand, but that’s not indicative of capability.
    Over time, 355 &amp; 385 are possible, but very difficult
     Most likely
    Photoshop is amazing
    Sea level Raptor’s vacuum Isp is ~350 sec, but ~380 sec with larger vacuum-optimized nozzle
   For sure
 Actually true
  Ceres, Callisto, Ganymede &amp; Titan
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest  
 Deep lore
 Hoping to open in Romania soon!
 Definitely
Probability that we’re in base Polytopia is highly unlikely - KWM
  Wow cool
Why aren’t more people talking about this!?  
  Sounds about right
 It’s not
_MZ    Over time, it will be 100% sustainable
Hadouken!!  
 Offer me money, offer me power …  
Also  
Without the removal fee, Tesla Solar is unequivocally a guaranteed, instant money printer, producing $300 to $1000 per year (in after tax income!)
For the remainder of September, Tesla is permanently waiving the $1500 solar removal fee requirement. Note, the ability to stop monthly payments at any time remains.
 Definitely for Space Force. We need to make Starfleet real.
 Very exciting to see India’s rapid progress in space! There are always setbacks, of course, but I think India is doing great overall.
   _truth  Yes
_rosberg Thanks for offering! Sure, that would be great.
     _truth  We might be in one right now
     _truth  No, probably V10.1
    _truth  Merging code branches &amp; one more QA-level release this week. Hopefully, EAP wide release week after.
   _truth  Looking good. Smart summon is almost great. Drive-in theater mode, caraoke &amp; Cuphead are awesome.
  _truth  🥳
  _truth  For sure on first crewed missions for exactly that reason
 _truth  Wanted to build an electric car company in college. Was going to do PhD at Stanford in electric energy storage (ultracaps), but got distracted for a few years by the Internet.
_truth  10 years ago …
  November most likely
 We’re almost there
Tesla doing laps at Nerdburgering
But Taycan does seem like a good car. Nürburgring track time is great.
 Sounds sweaty  
 😲
 A Neuralink could increase this by several orders of magnitude
  Uh no
 🤗
      Legs, but this render isn’t accurate
     In some of those, I’m even funny
   🤔
Model S on Nürburgring next week
  Also, cars are called “automobiles”
  Jalopnik not sharpest tool in shed …  
  🤣🤣
Um , this word Turbo does not mean what you think it does
  Looking into it
 Yes, and it ♥️♥️♥️ irony
 Still too buggy to be in wide EAP. Requires more testing. Hopefully, going to wide EAP next week.
 It’s up to 🇳🇴 &amp; 🇳🇱 as to whether they go with EU rules or rest of world. Not our choice.
  Same, except where limited by EU regulations. We’re aware of extreme consumer unhappiness about this &amp; are working with EU regulators to address.
 In close traffic, poisonous gas spewing from the car in front of you goes straight into your AC intake. Good thing gas/diesel carmakers didn’t cheat on their emissions or we’d be in real trouble 😅
 Nice
_bilinski Gasoline is designed to burn
  Anywhere insurance prices are high
    Yeah, several. Smart Summon most significant.
   Both 🍀 and 😋 buttons in V10.0
 _truth Yup
  Yes
_truth Definitely
Try Tesla Insurance. Should be ~20% less than avg. Currently only in California, but expanding soon. Critical feedback much appreciated.  
  Opening on 9/9
 Slowpoke! Didn’t even finish his hypothesis …
Haha actually true  
 So good!

_truth Exactly
  Coming soon. Version 10.1 at latest.
  Yes
 🇮🇸 Iceland 🇮🇸 for sure!
 _nafnlaus  Very soon, sorry for the delay
    Aiming for 20km flight in Oct &amp; orbit attempt shortly thereafter. Starship update will be on Sept 28th, anniversary of SpaceX reaching orbit. Starship Mk 1 will be fully assembled by that time.
   Probably 2 to 3 months. We’re about to ship Raptor SN 10.
  Probably 18m for next gen system
@_IAMOtis Would love to, but import duties are extremely high, even for electric vehicles
 Should be. Will fix.
Also, u can order online at   in 2 mins, have car delivered to ur doorstep &amp; return for full refund
  Can’t believe it’s been 6 years since our first vertical landing!
 Core body diameter is 9m/30ft
R2D2’s Dad
 Empty article?
One day Starship will land on the rusty sands of Mars  
Congrats SpaceX team!!  
About to do next Starhopper flight test  
Dragon Crew Arm. Astronauts will walk this gantry to enter Dragon &amp; depart for the _Station.  
Dronship with wings folded traveling through Panama Canal  
 Interesting
   Not that I know of
  Yes, rather embarrassing tbh
 Impressively accurate analysis!
  Hopefully next year
 ♥️♥️♥️
 Appears to be a wiring/connector issue
Igniters need to be inspected. We will try again tomorrow same time.
 Raptor uses dual redundant torch igniters. Better long-term, but more finicky in development.
About 5 mins from flight attempt
Starhopper flight currently tracking to 5pm Texas time for 150m / ~500ft hover test
 Finally, VR that’s cool *and* sexy!
 Oh behave u naughty planet … 😉
 😢  
  It’s quite robust
 Where are additional Superchargers most needed?
World’s first very large scale battery has worked out well  
  Yes, last flight for Hopper. If all goes well, it will become a vertical test stand for Raptor.
  Exactly! Especially let your PUC commissioners/authorities know.
 Agreed, that’s the right future
Looks like  Starhopper flight may be as soon as Monday. FAA support is much appreciated!
 We’re working closely with EU regulators &amp; hope to clarify the timeline soon
     Ok
    Should be soon
If you’re a utility or public utilities commission, please consider using the Tesla Megapack. Better for the environment &amp; usually lower cost than fossil fuel peaker plants!  
   Yes, probably within next 6 to 9 months
  Tesla is working hard to help stop global warming
 🤣🤣👍👍
 The Nude Scientisté
_feed Looks like a wheel of cheese
   Ok
  We need to complete internal QA testing for safety, which will hopefully be done in about 4 weeks
_sci Wow
 Everyone who bought FSD will receive priority/early access
Price increase for Tesla FSD postponed until version 10 with smart summon is in wide release, which is about 4 to 8 weeks away, depending on how early access goes
 Not risky imo &amp; can be adjusted/improved real-time. Essentially need to figure out most effective way to convert mass to energy, as Mars is slightly too far from this solar system’s fusion reactor (the sun).
   True, diverting a comet would be super hard. Could be done with small asteroids &amp; a mass driver, but this is risky.
Nuke Mars refers to a continuous stream of very low fallout nuclear fusion explosions above the atmosphere to create artificial suns. Much like our sun, this would not cause Mars to become radioactive.
 Will probably make sense to do this when Starship Mk 1 has 3 Raptors, moving body fins &amp; landing gear installed, which is hopefully mid September
  Will be converted to Raptor vertical test stand
 Trickier than it may seem on Mars, as atmospheric density is 1% that of Earth &amp; gravity is 38%, but doable for localized warming
  🤣🤣
Might make sense to have thousands of solar reflector satellites 🛰 to warm Mars vs artificial suns (tbd)
  AF certification required an enormous amount of work. It’s mostly design-review based, not flight-based.
   Yeah, would be great to get feedback from Tesla supporters
  Initially Model 3, later Y
 Looking forward to seeing Giga Shanghai soon 😀 Amazing work by Tesla China team &amp; support of authorities much appreciated!
  Not yet
 This is a great idea
 🤣🤣
 Um I ate most of it
Cookie decorating contest with kids  
Converts about 5 million tons of mass to energy every second
Great name! Wouldn’t worry about this particular one, but a big rock will hit Earth eventually &amp; we currently have no defense.
 Don’t know yet, but it’s important that the whole world transition to sustainable energy, so we’ll make costs as low as possible
One click to order solar &amp; save ~$500/year in utility bills with no long-term contract (cancel anytime)
 Next year
With the new lower Tesla pricing, it’s like having a money printer on your roof if you live a state with high electricity costs. Still better to buy, but the rental option makes the economics obvious.
Tesla Solar just relaunched. Lmk what you think …  
Which means a small corner of Texas  (or anywhere) with solar panels could power the entire United States
1 Gigawatt per square kilometer of solar energy reaches Earth’s surface
  In a few years
 Yeah, legs are hydraulic pistons &amp; abdomen is the accumulator
Generates a *lot* of energy  
 It is quite silly
 Meaning less than a century. But this would be pretty intense.
 Aspirationally, decades
The sun is an immense thermonuclear explosion fyi
 Yes
Not saying it solves everything, mind you, but it’s a step in the right direction
 Yeah, the trick is opening &amp; closing the spacesuit helmet really fast
 Stop hashtagging me 🤣
Perhaps that one was too edgy …
Hashtags are an abomination

  No, as better to vary thickness with vehicle height, but this is the right way to go for Boring Co tunnels reinforcement imo
Nuking Mars one T-shirt at a time  
 Simulations all the way down
Trust me, it will be 🔥🔥
Hey babe, fancy a hot date …? 😉 
 It’s not boring …
 Of course!
T-shirt soon
_ Guess I sort of am already
_ I’d play that game
Nuke Mars!
 This isn’t correct. Will address.
   Good conversation with head of FAA Space. Need a bit more hazard analysis &amp; should be clear to fly soon.
  Am talking to  in a few hours
_briann  Stacking fairing &amp; tanks soon, then adding control fins, engines &amp; landing gear
  That was my actual password at one point!
 Stop posting my password on twitter!
__   Coming
  Tesla audio engineers come from B&amp;O &amp; many other companies. They literally rōq. Our system is highly programmable, so we keep improving it via OTA codec updates.
  We’ll take care of it
Corporate Surrealism™️
  Not yet
fyi
 🤣
heh heh  
 True
No but srsly don’t do it  
_Games Roughly
 _truth Ok
_truth Possibly two weeks
Try playing Powerglide in your Tesla at volume 11  
 Working on upgrades to Sentry …
  No plans to introduce air suspension on Model 3 at this time
Watching a movie on Tesla V10.0 is great, in large part due to the sound system
  Obviously needed
 He would our first openly goth president. I think this is very important.
 I support Yang
  When Opportunity knocks …
Passing fad. Like steam engines. They look cool in a museum.
 Because our universe is actually a microverse in a miniverse. We probably just power someone’s brake lights.  
   Will be needed for sure. Bandwidth, no problem, latency is a challenge 🤣🤣
   Just spoke with FAA, so hopefully yes
  Thanks. Starship, which aspires to be fully &amp; immediately reusable in super heavy class, is a truly 🥜🚀. Even though I’m immersed in Starship/Raptor design &amp; build 7 days/week, it still doesn’t feel real.
   Approx min payload to Mars to nearest order of magnitude, so at $100k/ton, cost would be $100B
 Powerwall doesn’t need solar panels, but will work fine with both Tesla &amp; non-Tesla solar panels
  Yes
  Between $100B and $10T
 Amazing work over many years by SpaceX engineering/production/launch teams to get (almost) there
 For sure
 Yup
 Might take a bit longer to get through regulatory approvals. Likely September.
Gas cars are so last-century!
 Priority / early access will be automatic for all owners with FSD
  _akker  We’re accelerating opening up configurator/order page for more countries. Sorry, lot on our plate!
 _akker  Probably every 2 to 4 months, depending on how much progress we make
 Video is amazing with the Tesla sound system. Will include Caraoke!
_akker  FSD owners will get priority in the upload queue
 Thanks for reminding me. Will rectify.
 Tons of fun!
Tesla software V10 is lookin real good! Releasing to early access list soon …
  🤔
  Pot kettle 😀
  Don’t know enough about George’s company, but it sounds like he’s focused on a machine vision approach, which is the only general solution imo
 Yeah, George is a little nuts, but I like him &amp; he often has interesting things to say
  No sooner than a week. Working approvals with FAA.
 Wouldn’t read too much into this. Likely to be fewer F9/FH flights, but possibly an order of magnitude more than these numbers in Starship flights.
Thanks George!
     We’re working with EU regulators to improve rules. Spirit of rules is correct, but exact language doesn’t quite align with spirit. Navigate on Autopilot working well in rest of world.
 But actual road data is what matters most  
  _autosafety  Ultimately, however, what really matters is empirical safety. Nothing in life is 100% safe, so optimal figure of merit is how many millions of miles/km per accident.
  _autosafety  Good question. NHTSA is great for fundamental structural safety, except for unbelted front passenger occupant factor. Very rare these days for front passenger to be unbelted. NCAP also great, but there are some weird headlight angle factors. Super inside baseball stuff …
 _autosafety  Well said!
  Ok
🎶 Strangers in the Night 🎶  
 Sure
Rocket fairing falling from space (higher res)  
And  really knows cars!  
Rocket fairing falls from space &amp; is caught by Ms Tree boat  
Fairing caught, video posting soon
Hoping to catch the fairing in a few mins
 Race to orbit by both teams, although a success by both in close proximity would be amazing &amp; each would count as a win
  Details coming at Starship update
  Not in current plans, but that may change
 No
 Vandenberg is great for polar orbits. Will still play an important role long-term, but 80%+ will be eastward.
Great progress by Starship Cape team. Started several months behind, but catching up fast. This will be a super fun race to orbit, moon &amp; Mars!
 So much drama &amp; good times too! Maybe worth a book one day, but would come at expense of 🚀 &amp; 🚘 &amp; 🧠.
Headed to Starship Cape Canaveral build site today
Just left Starship Texas build site. Very proud of progress SpaceX team has made! Pics are of 9m dome rotation &amp; Starship airframe behind windbreak.  
Lyft/Uber/taxi drivers are expert Tesla advocates. Thanks for your support!!   
  Yes
 Progress is accelerating
Queen 🐝  
Teletub 🐝  
  Workin on it. One of my boys maybe gonna make this here candy.
“am … 🐝 guity” 🧐
 It’s all about branding  
  The best guide by far!
 Will Dojo to be the difference
 That is a great guide 👍
 philosophically
His name is Eric, of course
 It’s about time I suppose
__ Mad skillz
 Yes
A US 🐝  
Fred Astaire &amp; Ginger Rogers👌
 True
I ♥️ Top Hat   
 It finally almost doesn’t suck
🐝 all u can 🐝
  Oh my, what a dashingly handsome hat you have!
 The lost art of entomological haberdashery &amp; millinery …
 I dare say that 🐝 could use a nice 🎩  
 Yes, detailed review of the first orbital Starship, explaining the pros &amp; cons of each design decision
  We are tiny
    Very convincing! Ok, Boca it is. We should have Starship Mk1 with 3 Raptors almost ready to fly by then.
    I would’ve been bankrupt too. Unlikely investors would have funded a second attempt.
   Relief
   Ok, will discuss with team
  Sure
 Also, you can request any service from the Tesla phone app in under a minute
   August 24th, either at Cape Canaveral or Boca Chica
  That was our last chance to reach orbit. If it had failed, SpaceX would have died.
_boutall  Yes
 Will also be launching The Boring Company China on this trip
   Good idea
 _Station     _asc _en _CASIS _Research You’re most welcome!
Fates loves irony  
  For other countries, we pay in part for the local factory by selling cars there ahead of time. Also, gives a sense of demand. Current rules in India prevent that, but recent changes in sales tax give hope for future changes.
__hassan Not sure. Will check with my team.
 I’m told import duties are extremely high (up to 100%), even for electric cars. This would make our cars unaffordable.
 Orbital refilling is vital to humanity’s future in space. More likely spacecraft to spacecraft (as aircraft do aerial refueling), than a dedicated depot, at least at first.
  Fixing …
 Depot haha
 Mailing Dragon dock with Space Station is much harder than docking with our own ship for refilling. Not a problem.
  Never thought we’d make it this far
 Ancient times …
_Ryan Spooling up production line rapidly. Hoping to manufacture ~1000 solar roofs/week by end of this year.
Tesla Megapack now available for utility-scale energy storage  
 Thanks Jason! Super proud to work with such great teams at SpaceX, Tesla, Neuralink and Boring!!
Falcon rocket reentry from space with double sonic booms  
Now that Hopper has flown, Starship update probably in two weeks or so.
Falcon 9 piercing the sound barrier on reentry  
  Thanks for letting me know
  You can
 Vehicle alert seen show up automatically &amp; enable single touch request for service for that item either from the car screen or mobile app
 System automatically selects between mobile service &amp; service center appointment. Say prefer mobile in comments to bias. We will add a check box for mobile preferred.
Tesla owners can schedule service appointments in under a minute just using their Tesla phone app!
  We’re working on it. Agreed, Minecraft is high priority. Roblox too.
 Sure
 Haha probably true (sigh)
   _Ryan Depends on how release to owners with early access goes, but hopefully wide release by end of August
 Tesla Service Centers &amp; a lot more Superchargers coming to Poland later this year
   _Ryan Will recognize &amp; read all signs for FSD. Focused on traffic lights &amp; stop signs right now. Most are very easy. Difficulty is millions of corner cases.
  _Ryan Hoping to get “Joe Mode” into V10. The default, of course, is normal volume, but selecting “Joe Mode” would lower the volume of strident beeps &amp; chimes by half.
  _Ryan If not immediately, will be followed shortly in a point release
 _Ryan Yes
 _Ryan Some
 _Ryan Not currently in V10, but will try
_Ryan Yes, V10 will include several games &amp; infotainment features, improved highway Autopilot, better traffic light &amp; stop sign recognition &amp; Smart Summon
 Can’t you just play though phone Bluetooth?
  We’re close, but the magic is in the final details. Maybe 2 to 3 months.
 Maybe August, not more than a few months
 Yeah, feels just like an old school drive in movie experience, but with much better sound
When full self-driving is approved by regulators, we will enable video while moving
Ability to stream YouTube &amp; Netflix when car is stopped coming to your Tesla soon! Has an amazingly immersive, cinematic feel due to the comfy seats &amp; surround sound audio.
   Yes, really enjoyed it, although wish she’d made it up to sky city
  Unity port is done, so finessing the controls now. Mostly limited by local storage. Will allow additional game storage via USB. Whatever’s most fun!
  And those who weren’t expecting a ternary joke
  Will run v high res at 60 fps. Cuphead doesn’t need 4k.
 Cuphead for Tesla coming out in August
 Space fairies are real
Frank Frazetta
Encounter in 88  
Drone cam  
 Thanks!
Engine cam  
 _feed Yes
_feed 200m hop in a week or two
Starhopper flight successful. Water towers *can* fly haha!!
  Btw, you can schedule service via the Tesla app in less than a minute
  Good point. Getting fixed …
  Probably 1/4 to 1/2 of that capacity would be for stationary storage
 Launch underway
Dr. Livingstone, I presume?  
 Pc (chamber pressure) high due to colder than expected propellant
  Thin tiles on windward side of ship &amp; nothing on leeward or anywhere on booster looks like lightest option
  Testing a possible Starship windward side ceramic tile. Maximizing emissivity is best for conductive/particle heating. Nice thing about steel is that tiles can be very thin, unlike carbon fiber or aluminum airframe.
  Wearing black not recommended  
  High reflectivity minimizes photonic heating, high emissivity minimizes particle heating. No need to radiate heat away if you aren’t hot in the first place. Also, as metal heats up to yellow/red/white, it stops being reflective.
  _Station One Space Station image for each visit
 Me too
 In a million years, the Universe will go from being 13.772 to 13.773 billion years old. Like tears in the rain …
  Exciting modes!
 True 🤣🤣

Time to face reality  
 We’re all just made of two quarks &amp; a lepton
   Center 7 engines gimbal to 15 degrees
 🤝
  For 37 engine config, 6 are mounted outboard under landing leg fairings
  Outer engines stick out slightly from 9m diameter, don’t gimbal &amp; are mechanically joined at nozzle
 🐏 tough
  To be clear: good for in-space transit, but not recommended for Earth to orbit!
   Very unlikely
 Goodbye 😢
 Nuclear thermal rocket for fast transit around solar system would be a great area of research for 
  Do EV owners use V to G a lot in Australia?
   Probably have slots for up to 37 engines, but can decontent as needed. Starship update after Hopper hover.
I am become meme
Dance Dance 🐏  
Next year’s  competition will be in a 10km vacuum tunnel with a curve

Woohoo 🥳  
  Orbital refilling is critical for high payload to moon or Mars. Initially just Starship to Starship, later dedicated tankers.
 водка means cute water
 Odd
New  top speed of 463 km/h!!
Just saw that on a T-shirt  competition 🤣🤣
Technically, alcohol is a solution
 Full stack is 41 rn, but kinda beggin for just one more …
_vista  Way too long
Starship Super Heavy with 35 Raptors
 I have the t-shirt
 _DebH  Won’t change. Starship launch structure will be attached to the other side from tower.
_DebH  Starship launch structure is being built off-site in steel subsections
 2 to 3 months after that
  It *is* vision
  I suspect many besides SpaceX will livestream these flights. Won’t be subtle.
 Texas and Florida Starship prototypes (not Hopper) fly in 2 to 3 months
Made with rain ™️  
 Coming soon
  Yes
Tesla Service Centers &amp; Superchargers are being opened as fast as possible across Eastern Europe
 This is actually a good thing btw. China is making amazing progress in space, rapidly iterating on rocket &amp; space station technology. Great respect.
   No matter how one considers the data, there is a giant improvement from non-Autopilot to Autopilot
   Exactly. Trendline that includes Autopilot always-on accident avoidance features matches curve of Autopilot software/hardware releases, as you’d expect.
  Maybe end of next year
    Addressing epilepsy is likely one of the more near-term applications
  Post test fuel leak, but no major damage
 Aiming for hover test next week
 Yeah, big advantage of being made of high strength stainless steel: not bothered by a little heat!
   This non-Autopilot graph is not correct, as it includes Autopilot always-on accident avoidance features
   Good piece
   I mostly drive Model S Performance with dev version of FSD computer. Our new Raven powertain &amp; adaptive damping suspension is great! Next is Model 3P &amp; then X if driving with my kids. Acceleration is fun on tap!
 Exactly. There is no “MSRP”, only “P”.
 🍷 🚀 🥳
   With anything online
     Rococo Basilisk
_218  🤣🤣 yes, security is extremely important
  Sure
  Thoughtful analysis. We will endeavor to provide the robots, chips &amp; software to academia.
_Hughes  
Neuralink surprise twist!  
 _Ryan  Is there a longer edit I can post?
  I think so
 _zubrin  Something like this is the best way to do it. Incent outcome, not path.
About to go live
_man Not easy getting a lightsaber into backpack
 Approximately 6.9km/s
♥️👽 SpaceX has Area 59 👽♥️  
    Agreed, should be $3k less to get to FSD from EAP
“If you dislike change, you're going to dislike irrelevance even more.” — Gen Shinseki
As mentioned earlier this year, cost of the Tesla FSD option will increase every few months. Those who buy it earlier will see the benefit.
 Probably
 Agreed. That’s approximately date when we expect Enhanced Summon to be in wide release. It will be magical. Lot of hard work by Autopilot team.
Cost of Tesla full self-driving option increasing by ~$1000 on August 16
    Straw man fallacy. To appreciate, your car just needs to be worth more than you paid for it, so probably ~$75k is enough if you bought a 3. FSD will be bundled in all cars (important point). Something is not a commodity if you can’t make enough of them &amp; we won’t be able to.
     No, since Tesla will charge a % fee for being in our robotaxi fleet, but it will rise to whatever the clearing price is, otherwise all our cars will be bought by scalpers
    If we make all cars with FSD package self-driving, as planned, any such Tesla should be worth $100k to $200k, as utility increases from ~12 hours/week to ~60 hours/week
  Basic white adds too much to service repair complexity. Team convinced me better to go with pearl white.
Presentation streaming live from   at 8pm Pacific
_______   Streaming. Check Neuralink website later today. Starts around 8pm.
_KGBT   Won’t be today, hopefully tomorrow
  Sure, will do
 This guy is not a cofounder of Neuralink. Was at company briefly, but he didn’t work out.
 !!
_vista   We are tiny, simple creatures
 RIP
   Um … yes
Graham’s number  
To Infinity and Beyond!  
        SpaceX thruster package will be subtle. Hidden behind license plate.
       Haha yes
    Yes, but owner will have to accept tiny risk of damage. Those are very hard even for careful human drivers.
       Yeah, that’s next after summon
      Will trace back inertial measurements &amp; wheel movements to exit multilevel garage, unless car was teleported into position, in which case all bets are off
     Initially, single plane, but hopefully multi-story later this year
    Probably 5mph or 8 km/h
   Good progress on fast activation of summon down to ~1 second
   Parking lots are a remarkably hard problem. Doing an in-depth engineering review of Enhanced Summon later today.
   Agreed, it’s a small, but important, feature
  Ok
🔥
Also, I stole the idea from Spaceballs   
 Take note
   About right, but dangerously chuggy &amp; risking bad things at 40%. We’ll keep it above 50% for this flight.
 _mckirdy    More like 30 to 40 mT to GTO ~27 deg. Plane change is 2*v*sin θ/2, as I recall, but doesn’t matter, as there’s no geo 🛰 anywhere near that mass.
 _mckirdy    3
_mckirdy    100mT to 125mT for true useful load to useful orbit (eg Starlink mission), including propellant reserves. 150mT for reference payload compared to other rockets. This is in fully reusable config. About double in fully expendable config, which is hopefully never.
 Cont of main
  We changed the design quite a bit. More about this in late July.
~20m up &amp; sideways for first flight. Mk1 Starship hopefully 20km up in a few months.
 Sure
Raptor engine mounted on Starhopper. Aiming for hover test Tues.
  Great team
Motor Trend awards Tesla Model S best Car of the Year ever in their 70 year history!!   
It’s Not a Flamethrower, Mr Escobar  
  _Station  Sure
 _Station  Exactly
The _Station is moving at ~25 times the speed of sound &amp; orbits the Earth every 90 minutes
 Ok
_Rain Absolutely agree, you should be allowed to move your Tesla anywhere in the world, unless it’s prevented by government rules. Thanks for letting me know.
  Feeling extra 🍀 button
 Done. I’m feeling 🍀 &amp; I’m feeling 😋 navigation buttons coming with next software release.
   Whoop Whoop!!
  I think so. Will check.
  🤣🤣
 Would be cool if car took you to a random fun place traveled to by other Tesla owners in the area
      Sigh
 The answer is always aliens  
 Nice
      I have over the years
       That was a real sign
     I actually asked Ashlee Vance not to write the book several times. Inevitably, some things are wrong and then those errors are repeated for years.
     True
   Exactly
  No
 No
 There is no “refreshed” Model X or Model S coming, only a series of minor ongoing changes. Most significant change in past few years was to use high efficiency Model 3 rear drive unit as S/X front drive unit. That went into production 3 months ago.
 _Ryan  This shampoo sounds amazing
_Ryan  No problem
_Games The Cape is one of the two Starship build sites. More on this later.
    !freespace
 May the light of consciousness shine bright
     Overall successful. Aborted at T+51 sec on high mixture ratio, but we were intentionally probing the corners of the box of operating conditions, so not surprising.
    Exactly
     Sure 🤖 🚘 😀
    To be clear, consumers will still be able to buy a Tesla, but the clearing price will rise significantly, as a fully autonomous car that can function as a robotaxi is several times more valuable than a non-autonomous car
    Between first development engine &amp; first flight engine with operational payload, there are always hundreds of changes to both hardware &amp; software. Over time, thousands.
  Upgrading to 250kW soon
   Intersections with complex traffic lights &amp; shopping mall parking lots are the two biggest software challenges. Developer branch already mostly works in these scenarios, but massive effort required to get to 99.9999% safety.
 _spb  Local supporters will be invited!
    Yes
   ~Q4 2016
   End of Q4, most likely
   Production fully switched over ~3 months ago. Functionality won’t diverge until Q4, as it’s limited by software validation. Will be later for Europe compared to rest of world due to regulatory constraints that were put in place years ago by big ICE companies.
  This is why it’s possible for Tesla to have a million robotaxis by end of 2020 if we upgrade existing HW2 fleet of ~500k &amp; make at least ~500k FSD cars
  All HW2+ cars are upgradable to full self-driving capability with Tesla FSD computer &amp; all production in past few months has FSD computer
  Starship Mk 1 &amp; Hopper
 Wārløq
 Agreed
Later in life Bakunin is underappreciated
Listening to Revolutions by Duncan    Found this on a throw pillow …  
_spb  Will do Starship presentation a few weeks after Hopper hovers, so prob late July. If that timing works, free LJ chips for all present!
  My D&amp;D char was NG
 Sounds like fun
 Occupy Mars
_truth 👍
Cat is out of the bag 🧙‍♂️   
 Exciting progress in Boca! Hopper almost ready to hover. Based on tonight’s test, looks like 600 Hz Raptor vibration problem is fixed.  
 Sharknado is real
 When sheets come loose all dignity is lost
Model X as it should be shown  
What ants must feel like  
  🤣🤣
 _g_fischer  Yeah
Landing on Ms. Tree  
Rocket fairing returning from space
 Active safety will continue to improve via over-the-air software updates. Since all Tesla cars are connected, we analyze each accident &amp; do our best to minimize probability of recurrence.
_Mars  We must safeguard the future of life by transitioning to sustainable energy on Earth &amp; becoming multiplanetary via Mars. It’s not clear how much time we have to do these things, but sooner is definitely better.
 Best crash safety system is not crashing in the first place. Makes a world of difference for pedestrians &amp; cyclists especially.
 Should be fixed soon
Reason for top rating is that active steering &amp; braking safety features of Tesla Autopilot are turned on no cost for all cars  
 ✌️
Congratulations Tesla team &amp; thanks to all the new Tesla owners!! ♥️♥️
  Sure
 Good one 🤣🤣
Meme of recursive irony  
 _g_fischer  Not often these days. Good way to spend time with kids though.
_g_fischer  Playing a little Polytopia. Gonna try Solaris w my boys.
 Death Note
 Yeah, exactly 😀
Yep, order online at   in 2 mins &amp; car delivered direct to home
 Is this true ?
  FWIW, based on calcs I did 10 years ago, cross-over point for Li-ion beating kerosene is ~400 Wh/kg. High cycle batteries are just over 300 Wh/kg today, but probably exceed 400 in ~5 years.
  Jet A (kerosene) has much higher energy density than Li-ion, but electric motors weigh much less &amp; convert stored energy to motion better than combustion engines
 Yes, but still a bit too limited on range. That will change in coming years as battery energy density improves.
Huge thanks to all Tesla supporters around the world helping the cause. We ♥️♥️♥️ you!!
 Tweak music &amp; car karaoke
 Fun, little music tool coming later
  Sure. Want to add easy import/export of images from your phone.
Thanks for the happy birthday wishes! ♥️♥️
  One day, there will be a little racing game in the racing game in the car
   Merkindise coming soon!
  They have the best merkins
   _Majoris_6 I’m such a bad public speaker! Damn.
  These do seem like wise words
 If only we’d listened …
 💕
But, if you’re going to buy a merkin, be sure to haggle properly!  
If you don’t already know what a merkin is, don’t google it. You have been warned.
Typing Merlin literally just autocorrected me to merkin 🤣🤣
 We poured our heart &amp; soul into it. Lot of hubris too, but no regrets. Fabergé egg of cars.
 Hardly anyone noticed, but still
 We worked so hard to create that exact view. Seat rails flush with floor on a rear-slanted monopost.
Design &amp; production of The Spirit of St Louis was so incredible  
 2.1 sec 0-60 mph is base model before adding rocket thruster option
  _preece      That’s actually kinda true
     Almost anything. Length/diameter is much lower &amp; Starship doesn’t have a hammerhead fairing that acts like main sail.
    You’re touching on a good critique of Falcon 9. Our 1st stage to 2nd stage propellant ratio is too high. We’re fixing that with Starship.
 _Majoris_6  That would be unwise. Probably needs a restraint mechanism like Disney’s Space Mountain roller coaster. Would feel similar to Space Mountain in a lot of ways, but you’d exit on another continent.
_Majoris_6  ~1000, as all seats would be “coach” &amp; no toilets, pilot area or food galley needed. Most flights would only be 15 to 20 mins. It’s basically an ICBM traveling at Mach 25 that lands.
 About 100, assuming people want cabins. Pressurized volume is similar to A380. Could take a lot more on shorter trips.
  That was our design approach in early days, but fairing mass is much higher &amp; stability of booster in ground winds is low
_Games  There will be no Block 6. Moving to Starship architecture.
  Frangible would def hurt reusability. Also, presumably those quarter sections are actuated or aero control will be impossible.
 Good to see this. Splitting interstage into 4 sections will have some challenges, but could work.
  Probably sooner
 Ok
     Sure, that would be an honor
   Most likely. It is programmed to do so.
   High entry force &amp; heat breached engine bay &amp; center engine TVC failed
    Ok, thanks
   :(
   Working on Tesla global logistics
  I know … sigh. Those are truly a work of art.
  Yes, but we couldn’t take a chance on 2nd stage failing it’s 4th maneuver. This mission was more complex than anything I’m aware of in history of rockets. RIP center core, you did your duty well.
Ms. Tree caught the Falcon fairing!!
  High payload/delta-V missions will always be far downrange. Value of boost stage is measured (essentially) by *horizontal* velocity imparted to upper stage. Altitude is almost unimportant.
 Center core RUD. It was a long shot.
 _truth  @_TomCross_ He was the real deal
 _truth  @_TomCross_ One of our main conference rooms at SpaceX is named after Goddard
 No, it’s along the way
 Colonizing Mars one mug at a time!
 @_TomCross_ Waiting for Falcon Heavy to launch means high cortisol levels. This is our toughest rocket launch ever.
_truth @_TomCross_ Yeah
@_TomCross_ Heat will breathe life into Mars
      Yes! I love botanical gardens. This is my favorite:  
     Absolutely
    Yeah, that sounds ideal! I love the KSC rocket garden. Spent many days there looking at rocket design details.
_Gardi Uh oh
  Ok
On Mars, I like to drink my coffee in this mug  
 Chomsky is the Iago of socio-economic theory &amp; Piketty is his docile puppet
_Nolan1  Starship will do orbital launches from Boca Chica (near Brownsville) &amp; Cape
 At Cape for launch, so watched on hotel screen, but still so beautiful …
 Just watched it from your link ♥️♥️
_Overlord98 Yeah
♥️🚀 Apollo 11 🚀♥️    
  Yes, the droids can now hold down the center core
 Odds of center core surviving are about 50% imo, as it’s coming in about 4 times faster than a rifle bullet
   🖤 Tesla Software Engineering 🖤
Falcon Heavy on LC-39A  
    All Raptors have slight throttle range by adjusting flow to ox &amp; fuel turbines, but deep throttling imposes limitations on injector stiffness &amp; needs extra hardware. Swear these are legit technical terms 🤗
     It’s a factor. Main reason is that FFSC is the ultimate architecture for converting propellant into rocket velocity.
     Yes, they run at *much* higher pressure, but lower temperature. Thermal shock &amp; strain are what fatigue Merlin turbine blades. Solvable for high reusability, but better to apply that engineering to Raptor.
     Same as last time, although we made a design improvement that could yield about 7 bar more
    Merlin could probably do 1000 flights too. Turbine blade fatigue cracking would require periodic weld repair or replacement. Probably some seals &amp; bearings as well. Coking not really an issue.
 So cool
  Anything with high contrast
  Excessive shades of grey
 Yeah, we’ve been working on curbs a *lot*. Concrete seams too. So glamorous.
    Other rocket engines were designed for no (or almost no) reuse. Raptor is designed for heavy &amp; immediate reuse, like an aircraft jet engine, with inspections required only after many flights, assuming instrumentation shows it good. Using hydrostatic bearings certainly helps.
  Third revision of Enhanced Summon hopefully going to Tesla owners with early access later this week
 Haha
_mckirdy     Depends on destination
    Planning on a simplifying mod to Raptor for max thrust, but no throttling, to get to 250 mT level
    Since Raptor produces 200 tons of force, cost per ton would be $1000. However, Raptor is designed for ~1000 flights with negligible maintenance, so cost per ton over time would actually be ~$1.
 Chomsky sucks
Yet another Monty Python reference, possibly my favorite  
Anarcho-syndicalism FTW!!
   More than that now, but &lt;10% of that in volume, although much to be proven
   Full year production is usually ~70% of peak daily rate, so 500/year. Still, non-trivial at 100,000 tons of thrust/year.
  Raptor liberated its oxygen turbine stator (appears to be mechanical, not metal combustion failure), so we need to update the design &amp; replace some parts. Production is ramping exponentially, though. SN6 almost done. Aiming for an engine every 12 hours by end of year.
    
  For sure moon 1st, as it’s only 3 days away &amp; u don’t need interplanetary orbital synchronization
 Moon too
 🤣🤣

  Earth
 After Starship returns from orbit
  Mars belongs to the Martians
 A lot.
Accelerating Starship development to build the Martian Technocracy
Anywhere can be paradise as long as you have the will to live. 新世紀エヴァンゲリオン  
 Maybe a musket with candy ammo?
 e^ln(🦆) = 🦆
 Swear it works great in hell or yer 💰 back
  Haha
  
_avoigt    A few other small things change, but pretty close
  Tesla is putting significant resources into high-efficiency battery recycling. Makes both environmental &amp; economic sense. Please consider joining if interested in recycling engineering!
  No, we’re already recycling them
 _feed Yes, demographics, stratified by age, will look like an upside down pyramid with many old people &amp; fewer young
_feed Real issue will an aging &amp; declining world population by 2050, *not* overpopulation. Randers estimate far more accurate than UN imo:  
  
We are the Von Neumann machines

 Yezz
Stonk tip of the day  
Kids playing Beach Buggy in Tesla store  
_Hadfield   Exactly. And many areas of countries showing good Internet actually have poor or no access, so those are important to address too.
  One of my favorite original Roadster colors!
 How about baby pink?
Reminder that US federal tax drops by $1875 for any Tesla delivered after June 30. Order online at  
 Changing the palette is hell on service, because cars last for 20 years. Every color change has a long tail of hurt, especially for Model 3.
_of_happy A simple white (not pearl multi-coat)
Starting next month, Tesla will charge $1000 for color black (same price as silver)
  Will consider
 This will be our most difficult launch ever
  But on the inside …  
   Original Star Wars
  Sole meunière  
_sarrafi Probably fine. Some Tesla taxis in Amsterdam have 3 times that mileage.
 Actually, I stole it from my secret meme dealer 
 🎶 Non, je ne regrette meme 🎶
   🤣🤣
 Missed you too ♥️
Touched by an 😇  
   Not sure yet
_tennant My chariot license is made of papyrus!
  That’s the Tesla part
 Overall master plan should be explained. I think it still makes sense if we don’t consider AI 2b other.
_tennant I’ve been tweeting strange shit since Ramses II. He was a great pharaoh!
    Might get pushed to next month. Starhopper flight first. Waiting on engine repair.
   10 years ago, SpaceX server room was named Skynet as a joke. Fate 🖤 irony.
   _Technology  Thanks 😀
Model 3 arriving in UK
_schreurs Good question. Will consider thoughtful response.
  By far
 Good analysis. Both computers will be used &amp; sync ~20 times per second. This is a long time to a computer. Like a twin-engine plane, use both engines to max for normal operation, but can safely operate on just one.


Falcon Rising  
 BG2 was so good
     No need, Top Gear already did  
 The Ass Blade of Vengeance!
 _Station Weird that this actually happened. Music makes a big difference.
Unlike bees, who are experts in millinery  
Truth is a metaphorical concept with no footwear or clothing of anything kind. Also, baby don’t hurt me haha   
 _p   Yes, excessively configurable seats almost always make things worse, rather than better. Too complex &amp; unwieldy.
 _fight_club Cool, that’s the way it should be!
Can’t fool me it was 1669  
  Sounds about right
 Don’t make me challenge you to a rap battle!!
 Fair point
  Yeah, dual motor AWD is super fun!
_Padival  😉
 RWD with all-weather tires works great. Tesla traction control is an order of magnitude more precise than gas/diesel. Really helps to have Newton &amp; Maxwell on your side.
 Thanks Bob! He is a tough critic.
“Not only was the paint without any discernible flaw, but the various panels formed a body of precision that was beyond reproach”  
Also $2500 tax credit for California &amp; $500 to $800 utility incentive  
US tax credit of $3750 drops in half for Tesla on July 1. Order online in a few mins at   Return in 7 days for full refund.
Tesla Solar Toof Tile V3.0 starting early trials  
_Energ   Exactly
 (muffled titter)  
 Haha
 Would be good to look up electricity rates by location &amp; optimize cost automatically
_truth Yeah, they were a little off the mark  
  Fun!
 Applies to a small number of Bay Area residents, but worth checking out
🧲 is relativistic side effect of ⚡️
 Strong incentive to make up &amp; promote negative news
True, cost of operating a Tesla is much lower than other cars
Landing in the fog
  🤣
 Fear (and memes) get clicks
 Storm Watch was active for hundreds of Powerwall customers this weekend as a result of  Red Flag Fire Warnings in California, and we will continue to activate it whenever there advance awareness of a potential power outage or physical danger
  Absolutely agree. Major expansion of service centers underway.
 Super fair criticism. We’re putting max resources on this. Hard to hire enough repair technicians in Norway! Please apply if interested.
💖🇳🇴 Norway 🇳🇴💖
  Good point. Maybe we could collect rainwater, add a little antifreeze in cold climates &amp; make it last for years.
 Annual tire rotation is actually optional. Only worthwhile if you see significant differential wear on inside vs outside of tire.
  ♥️
  Yes
Upcoming Falcon Heavy 🚀 &amp; 🛰 details
  China EV subsidies mostly end this month &amp; fully end in about 7 months
 Yes
 No problem if you want to post the suggestions on this timeline. It’s great to get thoughtful criticism.
  155mph is common on the Autobahn. Even with only 5 offramp tunnels, exit speed drops to 31mph.
 Tesla Superchargers &amp; service centers coming to Kazakhstan this year
   Yes, as you point out, it will clear up a lot of the misunderstandings
  Avg speed of NY Subway is actually 17mph. TBC loop can run at 155mph with 16 pax autopods passing every second, routing automatically between tunnels to their destination. That’s 57,600/hour/lane &amp; you can build dozens of lanes. Will crush any subway in throughput &amp; convenience.
 Only cars made in China are eligible for these subsidies. Tesla has never had access to them.
 Exactly
  We’re trying to simplify product complexity, so only offering white (technically black &amp; white) interior in high volume markets
 _truth  Science 😀👍
_truth Read it on   
 😀
This is my pet bee, Eric  
 Working on Starship
 🐣
Scientists say it’s a crucial step towards catgirls
New Tesla Summon will 🧨 ur 🧠
  Releasing to Early Access Program Tesla owners next week
Found an old copy of   
   Also HEPA filter is expensive, so would force increase in price
   Same
  Not enough room unless we completely delete front trunk. Model S &amp; X primary HEPA filter alone is literally 1000% bigger than normal car air filter.
 S/X HEPA filter is one of my favorite features
Model 3 Performance  
   Feedback received. Restoring white interior.
  That’s the idea
   🤣
 Thoughtful model
   Based on our data, Autopilot miles appear to be twice as safe as manually driven miles, and we expect this to improve further
   Tesla is affecting powerful vested interests. Big auto &amp; oil companies aren’t known for their gentle behavior. SpaceX is battling US military prime contractors &amp; space programs of national govts. No walk in the park there.
      _NSF  Yeah, *way* better. Dramatically improves cost, complexity &amp; ease of operations. Distances of ~10,000 km with decent payload seem achievable at roughly Mach 20.
     _NSF  Add 2 to 4 more Raptors for Starship point to point on Earth. You can go surprisingly far, even with low lift/drag. This was an unexpected result.
   _NSF  Wings/flaps &amp; leg design changing again (sigh). Doesn’t affect schedule much though.
   _NSF  Not bad
    _NSF  Exactly. We’re on the wrong planet for SSTO. No problem on Mars or any of the moons.
   Yeah, the fear, uncertainty &amp; doubt propaganda campaign being pushed by those betting against Tesla has reached new heights
  I paid most of my Tesla-related expenses too. Tesla last year was actually net negative comp for me.
_of_happy  One day’s grace, taking into account time zone confusion. Will revert tomorrow.
 Edgy move
    Good idea
   True. I’m a gamer &amp; my boys are too. Starlink is designed to be great even for competitive twitch reflex games.
 Yup
    Would love to do exactly that
_Penguin Agreed, sent a note to Starlink team last week specifically regarding albedo reduction. We’ll get a better sense of value of this when satellites have raised orbits &amp; arrays are tracking to sun.
    Exactly, potentially helping billions of economically disadvantaged people is the greater good. That said, we’ll make sure Starlink has no material effect on discoveries in astronomy. We care a great deal about science.
_Gardi     Rotate on one axis. Magnetic torque rods for desaturation of momentum wheels.
     Yes, already planned. We avoid use of certain lower Ku frequencies specifically for radio astronomy.
  Aiming for sub 20ms latency initially, sub 10ms over time, with much greater consistency than terrestrial links, as only ever a few hops to major data centers
    If we need to tweak sat orientation to minimize solar reflection during critical astronomical experiments, that’s easily done. Most orbital objects are close to Earth btw, as shown by this NASA density map.    
   There are already 4900 satellites in orbit, which people notice ~0% of the time. Starlink won’t be seen by anyone unless looking very carefully &amp; will have ~0% impact on advancements in astronomy. We need to move telelscopes to orbit anyway. Atmospheric attenuation is terrible.  
  No, Raptor uses a large number of coaxial swirl injectors, which (we believe) achieves highest theoretical mixing/combustion efficiency.
 Fair
  Super proud of SpaceX propulsion/test/materials team! One of hardest technology problems. New high temp superalloy &amp; internal foundry needed to make it work. Foundry iteration interval is ~3 weeks from design to flight part vs ~36 weeks typical for aerospace.
 Only a tiny amount. There is enough air to affect the satellites &amp; allow some amount of yaw steering.
   Propellant stays same, but almost everything else improves. Fundamental goal is minimize cost per ton to surface of Mars.
  Great video. Couple notes: Raptor designed for subcooled CH4/O2, so propellant density &amp; thrust increase up to ~8%, as needed for mission. 380 Isp &amp; up to 50% thrust/weight improvement over time. Merlin thrust/weight doubled from V1, but Raptor is closer to optimum.
  Whoa cool 😀
_Gardi _Langbroek  Yes
Beautiful solar sail
 @_jameshatfield_  _Parker ISS is extremely gigantic &amp; has lights
 _Parker Precisely, sats will be in darkness when stars are visible
   Exactly
 Karma ⬇️
  Bold move
“Stop sending me this étron” - Audi
Great ad
  This is complete nonsense
 _xalher   Exactly. A car being electric &amp; upgradable to full self-driving maximizes future resale value.
 It’s not my finest work 🤣
_xalher   Given how many countries are limiting or setting an end date for combustion engine cars, their future resale value cars will be low. Consumers are starting to realize this.
💨 &amp; 🌌  
  👍
 Krypton thrusters operative, satellites initiating orbit raise every 90 mins
 No
_Calhoun  🤣🤣 Absolutely
 Yes, 3 to 6 months
 _Tesla _Timbo _anttila Lights would turn off automatically when no motion is detected
Thus *reducing* existing road traffic
Another great thing about many layers of interconnected tunnels with ramps &amp; elevators is that they can go from near your home all way to popping up at destination parking lot
 Opposite is true: you can have 100’s of layers of tunnels, but only one layer on surface (to first approximation), therefore trains should be on surface, cars below
 _Ryan Yes, but you get to your destination so quickly &amp; directly that it doesn’t matter
 _Schuman    Exactly. Still, pretty wild that the engine plume can climb up the side of a rocket going hypersonic speed!
_Ryan Paperwork &amp; hundreds of approving authorities is by far the hardest part
 _cameron  LA has a subway, but most people don’t know about it
_Ryan That would great!
 Yes. No one will forced to take the tunnel. It’s optional!
Boring Company guide to why tunnels are awesome &amp; safest place to be in an earthquake  
  So far, so good
_truth Ironically, same publications will attack me for compensation tied to Tesla tripling in value and imply Tesla is worthless. They can’t *both* be true!
 Gary the 🐌 still crushes us! Wouldn’t be fair. But TBC might give him a run for his money next year.
Fundamental advantage of layers of tunnels is you can have as many lanes as you want going in any direction. Will feel like folding space from one part of a city to another.
   This is simple and just works
  Pretty much
Racing at 127mph in a tunnel under LA
 Fairing halves recovered  
 Krypton ion thrusters activate in about 3 hours to raise orbit
 All 60 Starlink satellites online, solar array deployment coming up soon
   Thanks! Yeah, that’s pretty close.
Launch in 3 mins
New S &amp; X are much improved. Worth trying out. You’re on version 2, current S/X is version 4.
 It’s smart *and* enhanced!
Smart Summon coming soon!
    Tower with Knight is across road from SpaceX, looking at rocket
   Part of the factory is being upgraded, but tours will continue around the parts that aren’t
      _Sword   Yes, will be used for rear cargo storage. Also helps manage center of mass for heavy payloads when forward cargo is full.
     _Sword   Outer engines are attached to the edge of the airframe to give the center engines room to move
     _Sword   ~2.8m
    Turbines on hot side (outer fan-looking things in this depiction), but this is just to illustrate the type of engine. Our turbopumps are vertical, have 3 fan-looking things on pump side &amp; complex cross-flow. Liquid oxygen turbopump is integrated with main combustion chamber.
        _Sword   Horizontally
        _Sword   First flights would have fewer, so as to risk less loss of hardware. Probably around 20.
 So it goes
        _Sword   3 months
       _Sword   Hopefully, 4 months
      _Sword   Vacuum nozzle engines are only used in (near) vacuum conditions. Sea level engines need to gimbal rapidly &amp; at high angle for landing. Larger nozzle leaves less room to move &amp; increases moment of inertia.
     _Sword   Yeah. Outer engines with much larger nozzles are fixed to airframe, inner engines have high gimbal range ~15 degrees
   
 Sure
 Two tunnels about a mile long each
      _Sword     Yes
     _Sword     Makes no sense. In order to grow the colony, you’d have to transport vast amounts of mass from planets/moons/asteroids. Would be like trying to build the USA in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean!
@_ishanspatil     _Sword    Aiming for 150 tons useful load in fully reusable configuration, but should be at least 100 tons, allowing for mass growth
    _Sword    N2 for vacuum. Aero surfaces &amp; high gimbal angle main engines for atmosphere.
    _Sword    Hoping for 380 sec Isp, but at least 370. Otherwise similar to sea level version.
    _Sword    Aspirationally
    _Sword    3 sea level optimized Raptors, 3 vacuum optimized Raptors (big nozzle)
   _Sword    After the GoT finale, we dropped it to 6
  _Sword    Mk1 &amp; Mk2 ships at Boca &amp; Cape will fly with at least 3 engines, maybe all 6
 _Sword    About to complete SN5, ramping to an engine every 3 days this summer
Boring Company starts digging Vegas tunnel in 2 months. Aiming to finish by end of year.
_Sword    The turbine also spins though. Partially combusted gas drives the turbine wheel, which is attached to a shaft that turns the inducer &amp; impellers.
_Sword    But, essentially, the spinning things
   Yes
  Turbopump propellant flow path to achieve high chamber pressure is quite tricky. Requires an inducer &amp; 2 impellers with ~100,000 shaft horsepower.
😉
    Did it for the memes  
 Coming soon
   Yeah, been thinking about it for a long time. Electric supersonic VTOL. Hard problem.
   Hopefully in about 10 days
  Physics favors full flow
 Good design imo
 Thanks Sam!
 Good piece on lower total cost of ownership of electric vehicles
  Sorry to hear that. Will fix.
_Boeree Ok
   Easy to turn one of our Starlink satellites into a debris collector
   Yes
 Almost ready. I’m testing it personally this weekend.
_s_ Yes
Also porting Unreal Engine
 Nintendo won’t let us
_HB Maybe so eventually, but it will be information &amp; entertainment, not trickery
Tesla does not advertise or pay for endorsements. Instead, we use that money to make the product great.
We def need racing game using actual car steering wheel &amp; pedals!
 Sure
  Of course
 Portal 1 &amp; 2 on this would rock
  Would be great to have  &amp; !
Interact with games via touchscreen, steering wheel buttons &amp; XBox/PS controllers
Lots more games coming once we finish porting Unity!
 Top Secret  
 _NSF  It technically could, but wouldn’t have enough mass margin for a heat shield, landing propellant or legs, so not reusable
 No worse than production of a gasoline car, provided the lithium-ion battery cathode is primarily nickel vs cobalt. Nickel is the main alloying ingredient in stainless steel, which is what knives &amp; forks are made of.

Because a Tesla produces no emissions &amp; filters most toxins, pollen, spores &amp; viruses, it actually cleans up surrounding air as it travels
 Sure is. I live here. Air quality is especially bad near highways.  
This is why we put extra filters in all Tesla cars. S &amp; X even have hospital operating room grade HEPA filters.
😐
    Yeah, feels like something is messed up with Apple news app. Almost only ever shows negative news. Nickname is “the hate stream” 🤣
 Congrats on many successful launches!
And I am forever grateful  
 _feed √-1 2^3 3.14 😋
_feed Set of all math jokes that are actually funny is pretty small (sigh)
_feed Physics demands the impedance of resistance, because it’s not real
_feed What makes resistance complex is that it’s half imaginary!
    Glad it worked out
   Congratulations  &amp;  on creating great open source literacy software!
6 more launches of 60 🛰 for initial activation, 12 for significant coverage
Starlink mission will be heaviest  payload ever at 18.5 tons. If all goes well, each launch of 60 satellites will generate more power than Space Station &amp; deliver 1 terabit of bandwidth to Earth.
_foust 🏴‍☠️
_DebH  _terp  That’s about right
  Probably start installing end of next month
 _terp  SN4 is done. Hawthorne is working on SN5 now, but focus is ramping build rate of SN6 through SN10.
  The opposite. Any insights gained by one team must be shared with the other, but other team not required to use them.
_terp  Both sites will make many Starships. This is a competition to see which location is most effective. Answer might be both.
 SpaceX is doing simultaneous competing builds of Starship in Boca Chica Texas &amp; Cape Canaveral Florida
  A lot, but you can’t count on lines
 _alex Exactly
_alex It’s a factor
GoT season finale leaked  
  Technically, his bro
  
    Happy Mother’s Day. I love you Mom!
 Ok
  Completely agree. Every Tesla should have good art &amp; music creation software.
  It is flat-packed. No dispenser.
 That *might* not be my lucky 🍀 number
More details on day of launch, currently tracking to Wednesday
Much will likely go wrong on 1st mission. Also, 6 more launches of 60 sats needed for minor coverage, 12 for moderate.
These are production design, unlike our earlier Tintin demo sats
If static fire 👍 on Mon, 🚀 on Tues
First 60  Starlink satellites loaded into Falcon fairing. Tight fit.  
 Ok
♥️u3k
   Exactly
  Yes
 Yes, they are! 🤣
 Will try it
We have 2 dogs &amp; 1 cat. Dogs jump in car no problem. Cat does not. Experiment concluded.
Cats, probably not tbh
Truth
_Enough How about “Future is driving you”, followed by the word “future” several times in decreasing font size?
By Spiderwee on Artstation  
  How about being able to look through any of the cameras?
 Sure
_Bossaerts  That’s how I feel when I see dabbing
. drives a Tesla across the loneliest road in America  
 Probably June 20
Oh stop teasing, Jeff 😉  
_Blues    But putting the word “Blue” on a ball is questionable branding
_Blues    Competition is good. Results in a better outcome for all.
  We could have gamed an LA/NY Autopilot journey last year, but when we do it this year, everyone with Tesla Full Self-Driving will be able to do it too
  That journey will have a diff age rating
   Latest Model S is slightly faster
 Basically begging for it
Shoulda seen it coming …
Turns out there’s more ways to use Autopilot than we imagined
 Soon
_boutall  Baby Thanos?
 _g_fischer  Time
_g_fischer  Yes
 Yeah, takes you to a big purple guy with a bejeweled gold glove
 I was just there about a month ago
  Probably shouldn’t have called holding company Cyberdyne Systems 😔
  Just behind the glovebox, which is, presumably, where the gloves are
 He’s just kidding, folks, but best to turn car off just in case. Also 2001 was 18 years ago.
 _Stevee     Mein Herz brennt is👌boss fight song
_Stevee     Schatz, bitte hör auf- ich werde rot!
Even though lease cost is lower, I recommend purchase, as buyer retains upside value of car vs lease where you have give it back to Tesla
Model 3 Standard Range+ with Autopilot lease is $399/month at   but lots of other EVs available:  
  _Stevee  We’re closing the loop on Autobahn driving. Will improve dramatically in coming months. Ultra gemütlich.
  Oh. They have nice pictures there.
 There are people not on Twitter!? Where are they?
 Does look like fun
 🇫🇮🖤 Finnish Metal Rocks 🖤🇫🇮
@_TomCross_    One of the biggest reusability improvements was fast leg stow. Version 1 sometimes took days.
  In recent years, hours were much higher. Don’t recommend though — bad for health &amp; happiness. But no choice or Tesla would die. Hope to reduce to 80 hours next year.
Been wanting to go ever since that Finnish metal band won  
  💙
 My security car is called Baby Smurf
 Also, Blood, Gandalf the Grey &amp; Superdraco
 Eurovision
 too Euro
  Click checkbox under “Advanced Settings”
 Effectively throttles via tight impulse width control &amp; hundreds of small firings
Dragon approaching Space Station
  Not to be taken literally, of course. He means any maker of dairy products.
 Wow, how did they take this video!?
  Yes
  Looks about 18 light-minutes away
Relatively speaking
Space is easy, orbit is hard
_ SpaceX needs to demonstrate more progress with Starship, but that will hopefully happen rapidly
 . support for reusability with high reliability, the critical breakthrough for orbital rockets, has made a big difference
 Will consider
 To air is human 💨
 _work   Sorry for the inconvenience. We’re aware of this glitch &amp; it’s fixed, but software updates wait for a WiFi connection. Policy has been changed to push updates like this over cell connection sooner.
  Close
 Just kidding (obv), but the Fermi Paradox is bizarre  
 Maybe they’re among us. Just saying maybe …
_p Yeah definitely
 Triggered
 Candy is coming 🍭
That’s a direct quote from Warren Buffett
Also 1000 times more fun!
 Later this month. We need to merge a lot of updates into main code branch.
Order online in 2 mins, 7 day return policy  
 Margaritaville is one of my fav songs
 True
  You’re welcome. Thanks for buying a Tesla!
 Only if unable to order by May 10
 Here you go  
 🙏
 Ok
Maybe this goat is available  
Changing Tesla horn sound to 🐐
 Sigh
    Yeah, weird
 Good question
 What should be developed on Ethereum?
 Of 14M futures, 13.9M were simply death by boredom
 Naturally Ramanujan
How many futures are there actually?
 Stop giving away free ETH! 🤣🤣
And yet people ask what could possibly go wrong with AI
 Fate loves irony  
jk
Ethereum
  Excellent analysis
Deepfake  
OG wisdom  
Malcolm ’s new book is 👌  
Starships on Mars  
 Yes
 Damn haters
Starship on the moon  
  Our competitors do
  We don’t buy advertising
  Where’s the proof!?
 _boutall    Genau
_boutall    Might be boring
   Physics is a set of compression functions for the simulation
   It’s pretty much the only theory. This will mess with your mind:  
 Sensors are for the weak. Just go open loop.
 So true
 As sure as night follows day
     Schrödinger is a probability distribution in the shape of a cat
    Any observation of Schrödinger changes Schrödinger
    Once had a Great Dane named Hamlet, because Hamlet was a great Dane
_M_0_N The only thing beyond ludicrous is plaid!
   That’s them! Schrödinger is neither here nor there.
 Not as far as I know
  We have a big dog called Gatsby, a little dog called Marvin the Martian &amp; a cat named Schrödinger
   Yes
  Quantum mechanics was harder than all my other courses combined, but so incredible
     NVIDIA is a great company, but we needed (essentially) a dedicated ASIC for vision-based driving, whereas their solution needs to serve many different customer needs.
    I think it will be something like that. Much more productive to manage a fleet of robotaxis than only drive one taxi yourself.
    21 TOPS for Xavier. Pegasus is just Xavier with a power hog GPU on a separate board. Problem is you can’t transfer data fast enough between computer &amp; GPU, so GPU usable TOPS is almost irrelevant.
   Exactly, Tesla &amp; Nvidia numbers described by Pete were max *usable* teraops running our vision net
 We’re working on it. Takes time to get all regulatory approvals. Almost there for the larger US states. At least 6 to 12 months for Europe/UK.
_garak  Certain regulatory agencies would beg to differ 🤣🤣
    1
  Haha yes
 It’s just me writing, so the foolish things I say are entirely my fault 😜
 Only see about 5% of mentions. No deep logic to those I answer. Aspirationally useful, but often whimsical.
    No, just preparing for untethered hover tests
   Tom is still an advisor to SpaceX, but semi-retired about 5 years ago &amp; doesn’t work on Raptor. Will Heltsley heads propulsion overall, but Raptor is a team effort. No single leader.
 Great work by Tesla China team &amp; supporting contractors!
  Hoping to cover all of Eastern Europe this year
    Yup
   Everyone knows
   Cramer is a simulation. He’s not real.
 That’s odd. Will look into it.
 UK order page will go live around May 1 or 2
We will delay $1k full self-driving option price increase until May 10 for those unable to order by May 1
UK Model 3 order page goes live next week, followed shortly thereafter by Japan, Australia, New Zealand &amp; Hong Kong
CleanTechnica summarizes new _TopGear print cover story    
 Haha
Will be sentient, of course
_Ryan  Range will be above 1000km
  Agreed, we’re ramping up service centers &amp; Tesla mobile service worldwide
_Mitrakos More like $1000, but varies by country due to big differences in tax
 Considering
As mentioned before, Tesla full self-driving option price will increase after May 1. You can order online at  
 Like blowing twigs too?
 Nope 😜
Motor Trend on Model S updates  
Model S drives from San Francisco to Los Angeles without recharging  
 Strange but true
  This require hardware
Can order online in 2 mins for home delivery &amp; return in 7 days for full refund  
New Model S has 370 mile / 595 km range
 Perhaps the Internet has some helpful suggestions?
 Can’t think of anything
  Someone else thought of an electric 🍁🍃🍂 blower first? What!?
Tesla blows haha
 We can probably just repurpose Model 3 HVAC parts. Not a big deal.
  True
 Long lasting battery + fast recharge &gt; pack swap
 Haha ok
  It’s been suggested by many, externally &amp; internally
 Aren’t there good ones already?
 Maybe add a particulate filter on inlet
Tesla is going to develop a quiet, electric leafblower
 Yeah, there was a major change in last several months. Everyone noticed, Fred. Hello.
   Will do
  Absolutely
 Seriously
 Also, how did you manage to get shamed into being de facto anti-Tesla by social media trolls. Jeez …
 Fred, every fire *is* investigated. Problem is those who only write about 0 injury Tesla fires while ignoring fatal combustion car fires or fail to mention any contextual statistics in their article, misleading readers into thinking EV’s have high fire risk when opposite is true.
  Thanks, support super appreciated
 Sad if true 😔
When you read double standard articles about Tesla, please ask why. Maybe there’s a good reason that isn’t obvious.
Reality is a Tesla, like most electric cars, is over 500% *less* likely to catch fire than combustion engine cars, which carry massive amounts of highly flammable fuel. Why is this never mentioned?
Over a million combustion engine (it’s right there in the name!) car fires per year &amp; thousands of deaths, but one Tesla car fire with no injuries gets biggest headlines. Why the double standard? This is a real question.
Those who predicted Tesla &amp; EVs would be dead &amp; autonomy would never happen are same people attacking Tesla today for 6-12 month delays, while ignoring major automakers 5+ years late. Why the double standard?
Almost all coverage back then said hydrogen fuel cells would destroy electric cars &amp; autonomy was between 10 years &amp; never …
   Anti-matter def wins on energy density 🤣🤣
  Exactly. By end of this quarter, about half a million Teslas will have full self-driving hardware (pending computer swap) &amp; we will make another half million FSD cars by mid next year.
      As a robotaxi, probably closer to 16 hours, accounting for empty legs, travel to charger/cleaning/service, wait times, etc. ~30 mile penalty most likely imo over ~120 paid miles. Impact is signicant for electricity cost, battery wear cost &amp; larger range pack needed.
    Over a quarter million gasoline vehicle fires per year in USA alone  
   Anyone who did this analysis should interview at Tesla
  Upgrading hardware is not important for a few months
 Is that a real billboard?
      We’ll let the NN loose on Track Mode one day … that’ll be insane
   Reddit is hardcore. Mostly correct analysis. Comments so dark …
     Or maybe pegging
      On yeah, that too
     Exactly. Also, you can’t actually use computation from a separate GPU effectively, as you get choked on the bus, so most of the computation is irrelevant. High power, high cooling, but low true, usable TOPS. Worst of all worlds.
Full Self-Driving video  
  All Model 3’s ever made can upgrade
Warning, this presentation is 4 hrs &amp; 20 mins long
    Exactly
 All cars made since Oct 2016 either have the hardware needed for FSD or are trivially upgradeable
  Yeah, will post soon
 It’s automatic
Tesla Full Self-Driving  
Happy Home Planet Day!
Full Metal Alchemy
_PlugSeeker     Love that movie!
  Actual Tesla range is about 5 miles / 8 km past zero
 ♥️ 🇯🇵
 правда
_g_fischer  Coming soon
 Already have one
Respawn++
The Internet is insane
          Never seen anything like it. Tesla is just trying to make electric cars &amp; solar power for a better future for all. True, we might not succeed, but why do they want us to fail?
__Hunter Milady, my shield is yours
        This is extremely messed up. , what’s going on?
 Говорят, что кур доят
 _svtrs Вот где собака зарыта
_svtrs где инопланетяне?
🦆 FTW
_sci We are very tiny
 Put water repellant coating on radar, dark rectangle just below nose. Anything hydrophobic from hardware store or Tesla service can do it.
 _PlugSeeker    ♥️♥️♥️ 🐍🐍🐍 ♥️♥️♥️
Bach is killing it on YouTube
  I love your castle
 Ewe’re a winsome eyre
 Nice
Back to work …
🐏
 _show Are you me or are you you?
  My fav color is blue, no red, aaargh …
 New uWu  
 Old ewe  
  It’s USB-C
   It works great!
 Haha
 !
I meant lämpe. Where’s the edit function when you really need it!?
Just wants a little lamp 💡
  _M  So cute
Original moth meme  
Or a sheep
_ea     Exactly
“Wake up sheeple!” - sheep
    🚀 propellant grade kerosene (basically, jet fuel) &amp; liquid oxygen are close, but H2 &amp; O2 are not
    Common shaft only works if optimal rpm is similar for fuel &amp; oxidizer
My Twitter is pretty much complete nonsense at this point
Like thug, but rural
Rürl Lœf
Switched souls with The Museum of English Rural Lofe
But I’m just a simple sheep/ram
  Sheep replicants
 Sheeps thank you 🙏
 _M  Are you good with sheep?
 I’m an absolute unit too  
_261291  Yeah, gave everything I had to Tesla in Dec 2008
 It’s not a big deal. Charge to 90% to 95% &amp; you’ll be fine. At 100% state of charge, regen braking doesn’t work, because the battery is full, so car is less energy efficient.
 Haha
     Yes
  Rockets are not yet safe enough to fly over land
  Engines seem ok, pending inspection
 It can, but the attachment fixtures are different from standard F9 &amp; they weren’t ready in time
 Winter in snowfall is so beautiful
 I’m actually less crazy in person … or am I? 🤔
I was always crazy on Twitter fyi
 Yes
 Haha true. I actually love horses.
Buying a car in 2019 that can’t upgrade to full self-driving is like buying a horse instead of a car in 1919  
 Love Just Water btw
   
 With steel membrane wings like a Dragon, we may be able to lower Starship’s orbital reentry temp to ~1000 degrees C, which would allow the whole surface to be uncooled bare metal
 Starship will land on a ring of fire
 6.5
 Yes
Winter is coming
Thinking about adding giant stainless steel dragon wings to Starship
  That tweet did take immense effort 🤣🤣 Fair point tho. Powerwall production is now ramping fast. Tesla was cell-starved last year, so we had to switch all lines to make packs for cars, which meant Powerwall production was living off scraps.
   Deal
Please support my campaign to rebrand  as 🧦 emoji!
  🔥🔥💕💕💫💫😀😀
At some point,  and I should just a get a room …
 Just use this handy guide  
_r11   Yes
 Good interview by 
        _Enforcement Truth
 Exactly
       _Enforcement How embarrassing. Will change.
 We will. You read it right.
      _Enforcement Haha true
      I’ve always thought that the fundamental good of Tesla should be measured by the number of years by which it accelerates the transition to sustainable transport &amp; energy
   Good point, small oil is a problem too
    I’m sorry, Fred, but WSJ has relentlessly attacked Tesla with bogus articles for over a decade. They can’t *all* be chalked up to poor reporting. Where are the WSJ exposé pieces on oil, coal &amp; gas? That industry is 1000 times bigger than Tesla. Perhaps they’re all angels …
    Yes, this was an utter boldface (literally) lie! Unbelievable that WSJ would write something so false.
   True, Bloomberg is almost as bad
  Holman Jenkins &amp; WSJ in general are sock 🧦 puppets of big oil
_ Starship is kinda Gundam
   Very much so. There are 2.5B cars &amp; trucks on Earth. Even replacing 1% of that fleet would require making 25M vehicles per year. Tesla will make over 500k cars in next 12 months, but that’s a mere 2% of 25M or 0.02% of global vehicle fleet. Car industry slow -&gt; demand &gt;&gt; supply.
 Sentry Mode fundamentally empowers the individual car owner over entrenched interests, in this case a corrupt traffic judge. Even Tesla doesn’t have access to the video unless sent to us by owner.
   Mint berry crunch
 poetic justice
  Boring candy coming soon …
 Mr Buffett, please stop destroying Dairy Queen. In the name of all that is holy, please stop.
 Wow, a lot of people don’t know much about how manufacturing works! If you have peak capacity of X, actual average weekly output will necessarily be less than X. First 6-12 months, it will be much less than X. Impossible to predict exact production ramp S-curve.
 There is 35 GWh/yr “theoretical capacity”, but actual max output is ~2/3. It was physically impossible to make more Model 3’s in Q1 due to cell constraints.
  Yes
 Yes, all cars with Autopilot 2.0 or higher, so ~400,000 of Tesla cars built to date
  Your interventions do train the NN, but we first verify that the training doesn’t cause other issues, so expect step rather than continuous changes in capability
 Yes
 There will be that too, but economics will favor initial purchase
 Hopefully have the order page live before then. If not, will push price change out a bit later.
  Not good enough yet. Pushing release by a few weeks. Will be amazing.
 Incorrect. Pana cell lines at Giga are only at ~24GWh/yr &amp; have been a constraint on Model 3 output since July. No choice but to use other suppliers for Powerwall/Powerpack cells. Tesla won’t spend money on more capacity until existing lines get closer to 35GWh theoretical.
 Tesla will start FSD computer upgrade in a few months
 Something like that
Starting May 1
Please note that the price of the Tesla Full Self-Driving option will increase substantially over time
 Coming this year
Lease a Tesla online in a few mins &amp; have it delivered to your house (return within 7 days for full refund)  
 Cryptocurrency is my safe word
 Model 3 drive unit &amp; body is designed like a commercial truck for a million mile life. Current battery modules should last 300k to 500k miles (1500 cycles). Replacing modules (not pack) will only cost $5k to $7k.
_Lamsa         Cool
 On April 22, Investor Autonomy Day, Tesla will free investors from the tyranny of having to drive their own car
 Uh it’s a simulation hello
  Da Vinci biography
  Malala
 That would be cool to do one day
  Other automakers change prices constantly &amp; substantially by varying rebates &amp; discounts according to negotiating strength of buyer. Tesla is transparent &amp; consistent.
  So if we raise prices in the future, will you cut Tesla a check? Can’t have it both ways.
 Ahem RHD
 LHD order page should be live within a few weeks. Deliveries start hopefully June/July.
 _leduc Coming this year
   Good point
Leasing now available for Model 3  
  Samwise
 Am basically doing continuous AMA on Twitter!
  This is true. They each have avionics, several nitrogen thrusters &amp; steerable parachutes.
♥️🚀💫 SpaceX team 💫🚀♥️
 Made on Earth by humans
  Yes
 Recovered from water, but undamaged
Both fairing halves recovered. Will be flown on Starlink 💫 mission later this year.  
Thanks on behalf of  team! We ♥️♥️♥️ !
 Liquid oxygen
The Falcons have landed  
  . team would be so honored to fly this for !
_10 _wyler    Haha exactly
 Upper atmospheric wind shear is very high. Will have to postpone launch unless weather improves soon.
   Vengeance
  Haha sure sounds like it
  Probably something notable to announce in a few months
 I hope a cybernetic interface is ready in time. Symbiosis, irrelevance  (hopefully blissful) or doom seem to be the three most likely paths.
 _foust Actually true
 😲  
 Found a pic  
 First flight for Falcon Heavy Block 5 means there is some risk of failure between 5% to 10% imo. Many good design improvements from Falcon Heavy demo, but the changes are unproven.
I first read this as making wind with 🧀
 _LM Norway has already proven it could be done last month. No question Australia could do this in far fewer than 11 years.
 . copy 🐈
   No, it’s better
  Building primary structure completion seems on track for May, but then it will take several months to install &amp; activate factory equipment
 Love Brunel. Great first name too.
  Yes
   ~80%
  Mobile can do it no problem
 Doesn’t matter yet whether you have Tesla FSD computer or Tesla Nvidia-based computer. When it does matter later this year, Tesla will switch the computers for you.
 What city?
 Two, independent system-on-chip architecture, with each SoC having two NN accelerators that can perform simultaneous health-check calculations to protect against a soft error
 _plus_ch  Yes. Working through regulatory approvals.
The Tesla Full Self-Driving Computer now in production is at about 5% compute load for these tasks or 10% with full fail-over redundancy
 Time flies
   Any user input counts
  Car looks for a slightly turning force on wheel (direction is irrelevant) to confirm that driver hands are on steering wheel before initiating lane change. Just a precautionary measure until we have a few billion miles/km of real-world lane changes with reliability &gt;&gt; human.
 It will enable video when parked &amp; connected to WiFi. All Tesla Superchargers will have free WiFi over time.
 You’re welcome. Thanks for your great photos!
  Yeah, I’d love to do that
Starhopper  
  Good idea
  Definitely
 Already fixed
 To make core AP more affordable
 That would be cool. Color variation causes havoc though.
Team is working on international versions super hard btw. Unfortunately, regulators around the world have different rules &amp; processes, so just takes time.
Tesla Enhanced Summon coming out in US next week for anyone with Enhanced Autopilot or Full Self-Driving option
_nafnlaus     Precisely
 _Ryan Almost done
_Ryan Are you on Mad Max Mode? This may be too meek for places like the LA Freeway …
   Radar
  Sure
  Exactly
 Base AP will have same NN, so core functionality also improves
 Many different regulatory authorities. Just takes time.
Latest Autopilot update is epic. Rolling out to all US owners with Enhanced Autopilot or Full Self-Driving option. International coming soon.
Starhopper just lifted off &amp; hit tether limits!  
Max thrust of 2550 tons will be almost 10% higher than Falcon Heavy demo mission last year
Static fire data looks good so far. This is first launch of Falcon Heavy Block 5, so we’re being extra cautious. Launch date might move.
  _John_D   Exactly
“…drivers in this dataset use Autopilot for 34.8% of their driven miles, and yet appear to maintain a relatively high degree of functional vigilance.”
   Hi Nina! So … how many £ would it take? Just between us.
Stay positive 🧁  
  Good point
  How much is it?
  🤔
 I think I’ve paid for a subscription at least three times, but your paywall keeps forgetting this
 Please fix your paywall. Your content is great, but your paywall is not.
   Yes
  Yes, instead of someone needing to drive their car personally, they can manage a fleet of self-driving cars
 That’s exactly the idea. What’s not well understood is that Tesla cars being made *today* will be able to do that for you. Just a matter of finishing the software &amp; going through regulatory approval. Will be explained in depth via live webcast on April 22.
   Thanks 😀
  Great work with Stripe btw. Much needed.
   I’m told it’s looking positive &amp; we will be allowed to continue servicing our cars in Texas
  Sentry Mode is barely at V1.0. Will improve a lot in coming months.
   Impressive analysis
  Only external cameras are being used right now, so internal is not enabled. When it is enabled, we’ll add a setting to disable internal camera.
  Also, it can be used to supplement cameras on outside of vehicle, as it can see through 2nd side windows &amp; rear window.
  It’s there for when we start competing with Uber/Lyft &amp; people allow their car to earn money for them as part of the Tesla shared autonomy fleet. In case someone messes up your car, you can check the video.
 Will take care of it
  Improvements coming soon
_cooley  Yes, needs to drive best clear path. Lane lines are just one input.
_Stevee  Great name 👍
 Neural net is upgraded too in this release. It’s not just a settings change.
  Totally agree. Tesla phone app should have all controls that car center screen has, so your phone can serve as a complete backup.
Starhopper completed tethered hop. All systems green.
  Glad you like it! Sorry about the trouble earlier. Helpful feedback for improving the car!
This is way more awesome than it might sound
   Night mode default brightness is actually too high imo. Should be lower &amp; allow below current “0%” level. Making that adjustment too.
   Agreed
  Night mode with 0% brightness is actually too dark during the day. This is ultimately our fault. We will update our software so that 0% brightness is always usable relative to ambient conditions.
  Change your screen preference from night mode to auto
   Fur-curious
  These rumors are untrue!
 Responsible for more deaths than any other chemical! Weirdly, dihydrogen dixoxide, with only one extra oxygen, is not good to drink, but great for changing hair color.
_b0rg Axel F    
Obv just someone in a 🐿 suit. Also, very sus that a 🦊 is reporting on this.  
Dogecoin value may vary  
Dogecoin rulz  
 Uh oh
_Heats Dogecoin might be my fav cryptocurrency. It’s pretty cool.
Yup
_ua _sci Some challenges with ice formation in the cryogenic propellant prevalves. Hopefully overcome soon.
_sci What could possibly go wrong?
 No
_Mechanic You’re so right. Working on it!
 That car seemed so advanced when I watched that show as a kid! ♥️ Knight Industries Two Thousand
_  And even tinier ones for tardigrades
_  Yes 🐜
 Going forward, all Tesla stores will be tiny &amp; have tiny cars
  _lab Meant to say young, but spelled it wrong
 _lab Ironic stan
 If 🤖 can do this, what can’t they do!?
_lab Solid work by Keen, as usual
♥️🇳🇴 Norway 🇳🇴♥️
  Yes
 Yes
 Seems fair
_A_M_B Some people use their hair to express themselves, I use Twitter
.
Making The Onion articles real …  
 &amp; 
Duck emoji FTW
_m Final edit was on Ableton
 _Zoo  Surprisingly difficult to address false positives with rain. System would go nuts trying to wipe away non-existent rain, which was obv ineffective.
 Jung  
We’ve been so mired in production &amp; logistics for past 18 months. Really looking fwd to getting Semi into production.
Tesla Semi delivering Tesla cars  
  Pre-Happy birthday!
Amazing work by Tesla Delivery teams, especially in Europe &amp; China! Most insane logistics challenge I’ve ever seen. Thanks also to many country &amp; city officials for your help this weekend! Super appreciated.
 Coming soon!
 No
 Wow
  
This might be my finest work
Duck emoji defeats Emo G Records. Crushing victory.
I’m disappointed that my record label failed
Emo G Records    
   Instagram comments are coding in emojis
  Also true
  True
The quality of emojis varies wildly
Lame
🦆
 C++ syntax sucks
 Assert (“Money” == Series of heterogeneous databases insecurely connected with high latency. Primary purpose == Information system for allocation of human time. As automation++, value of money--);
   Even connectivity at my house in Silicon Valley sucks!
   _rocchini   Like the movie Us. Scary … but also empathetic.
     No, but for sure the other way around!
       Also the intense low frequency vibrations that you can’t hear, but you can feel in your chest
    We’re going to try. Side boosters come back to Cape, center core lands on droneship. Latter will be coming in v hot &amp; fast, so dicey.
   Annoying that  perpetuates myth that Delta IV Heavy or Atlas V can do some orbits that Falcon Heavy can’t. This is absolutely false. FH would have to go full expendable for GEO direct, but that’s very rare.
   Yeah, Falcon Heavy Block 5 has way more performance than last year’s vehicle. Lot of room to increase side booster load transfer &amp; max Q without changing any parts. FH Block 5 can launch more payload to any orbit than any vehicle currently flying.
  Probably no fairing either &amp; just 3 Raptor Vacuum engines. Mass ratio of ~30 (1200 tons full, 40 tons empty) with Isp of 380. Then drop a few dozen modified Starlink satellites from empty engine bays with ~1600 Isp, MR 2. Spread out, see what’s there. Not impossible.
 Retrofits will start when our software is able to take meaningful advantage of the Tesla FSD computer, which is an order of magnitude more capable. For now, it’s slightly disadvantageous to have Tesla FSD computer, as our software is more refined for HW2.
 Anyone who bought FSD will get it
Anyone who purchased full self-driving will get FSD computer upgrade for free. This is the only change between Autopilot HW2.5 &amp; HW3. Going forward “HW3” will just be called FSD Computer, which is accurate. No change to vehicle sensors or wire harness needed. This is v important.
   Yes. Sensitive propulsion &amp; avionics remained dry. Great work by SpaceX Dragon engineering team. Major improvement over Dragon 1.
  Massive delta velocity slam from highly elliptical Earth orbit using a fully retanked, but lightened up Starship with no heat shield or fins/legs. Best choice for the impatient. Ion engines are too slow.
 We should send probes to outer solar system &amp; get high res, true color images of these strange things. Maybe there’s an alien artifact out there …
  Super cool!
_galway Good point
 Tax authorities tend to interpret things in their favor, but it sure sounds like you could be right! Will investigate.
 Rare use case, but it is possible. There are complications with this. Eary prototype Roadsters had this ability.
 Exactly
 Super proud of Tesla Autopilot team!
@_DavidMacMillan No, it is one week either way.
_goncalves_ 🤗
   I think so. For sure worth giving it our best shot! Would be great to have a competitive, commercial program to build a moon base that is outcome-oriented (not cost-plus), so you only get paid for safe delivery of cargo.
  It would be so inspiring for humanity to see humanity return to the moon!
 12,000 lbs!? How puny. Do you construct children’s toys?
That’s exactly it. You’re no longer mentally fatigued after a long drive. Makes a major difference to your happiness level commuting home from work after a long day.
  Good point
Hard to appreciate how much Tesla Autopilot improves enjoyment of driving until you try it
 Yes, otherwise propellant usage for an atmospheric entry would be very high and/or center of mass would need to be very tightly constrained.  Yes, but we’re going to skip that at first to avoid fragging launch pads.
 Glad you like it! Navigate on Autopilot hopefully approved for Europe soon.
Thank you!
 Will do
_Enough  Ford has 4 CEOs in 5 years &amp; nobody blinks, but Tesla loses 1 intern &amp; it’s front page news. I tell ya (shakes fist at sky) …
 It’s possible to make a self-sustaining city on Mars by 2050, if we start in 5 years &amp; take 10 orbital synchronizations
 _Deitsch You’re most welcome! Glad to be helpful.
  Only when Y is in production
 Every car company is constantly changing prices, but nobody cares
 Import tariffs, VAT &amp; transport costs
To be clear, this doesn’t affect Tesla website order prices. Existing inventory prices are currently slightly lower than on website. This will bring them in line.
To be precise, midnight on April 1, so effective April 2
Please note prices on all Tesla inventory cars worldwide rise by ~3% on April 1
   About to be upgraded to Chromium
_72     Reset
  Sentry Mode options will be:  Always Exclude Home Exclude Work Exclude saved locations Ask Off
   If someone has already won a Roadster from a prior program, they’re only eligible to win the signed Performance Y
  Sounds like a good idea
 How to win the boss fight in Sekiro
  No, it’s cumulative, but once you win one of the prizes, referral count resets to zero &amp; you can’t win that prize again. Intent over time is to enable those without a massive social media presence to win.
 WW
 Agreed, you can only win each prize once
  You’re welcome!
New Tesla referral program just released  
  Why uh yes we comprehensive statistics that go deep &amp; wide
_Padival   Me too! He was so great. Loved Colbert Report too.
 Jim Cramer explains short-seller market manipulation  
 _Padival  Jim can’t take the heat
_Padival  Jim, no response?
_Padival  Exactly
  Best to get a Tesla Powerwall, so you can power your house &amp; also drive
 Probably start Australia builds in late May or June &amp; start arriving in winter
 Coming soon
 Yes, full duration
 White-hot parts reached orbital entry temp of around 1650 Kelvin
       Falcon rocket booster is aluminum-lithium &amp; carbon fiber, which have low max temperature allowables. Super Heavy booster is stainless steel. Since it only goes to around Mach 8 or 9, moreover at high altitude, it needs no heat shield, not even paint.
 Transpiration cooling will be added wherever we see erosion of the shield. Starship needs to be ready to fly again immediately after landing.  Zero refurbishment.
 No straight path for hot gas to accelerate through the gaps
Testing Starship heatshield hex tiles  
_Wehler      Hexagonal tiles on most of windward side, no shield needed on leeward side, transpiration cooling on hotspots
     Only some of the hottest sections
    Full size
    We decided to skip building a new nosecone for Hopper. Don’t need it. What you see being built is the orbital Starship vehicle.
   You can deep throttle on single shaft system by choking flow of fuel or oxygen between pump &amp; combustion chamber. Problem is more with the tiny rocket engine that powers the pump, called a gas generator. That has to throttle *way* deeper than the main chamber.
    Working on regulatory approval for both Boca Chica, Texas, and Cape Kennedy, Florida. Will also be building Starship &amp; Super Heavy simultaneously in both locations.
_REAL_KEAGAN     Agreed
   Raptor is *very* complex, even for a staged combustion engine. We’re simplifying as much as possible with each iteration. Throttling down to ~50% is hard, but manageable. Going to 25% would be extremely tough, but hopefully not needed.
   Started rolling it out a few days ago. Always starts slow, find rare corner case issues, fix them, continue rollout …
  Hopefully. Always many issues integrating engine &amp; stage. First hops will lift off, but only barely.
 First (really short) hops with one engine. Suborbital flights with three.
  Goes against interests of all Texans
  Wow, this is crazy
 If someone really wants to return the car in good faith on day 8, that’s fine
To be clear, orders are fully refundable, even after you’ve had your Tesla for a week
Reminder to buy our S3XY cars before midnight on Monday! Prices rise slightly worldwide on Tuesday. You can order online at  
  _ross  Yes!
  _ross  Definitely down the road, once construction &amp; upgrades aren’t so crazy
 _ross  This causes some media confusion, as batch builds &amp; ship arrival times can make our sales seem incredible one month &amp; terrible following month, but consumer tastes don’t actually vary so much. Massive month over month changes are usually because of production/shipping schedules.
 _ross  Not exactly same time, as countries have different regulations &amp; we try to build in batches to simplify production
_ross  Might arrive by June, but def before end of summer
   Model 3 partial permanent magnet induction motor, especially with silicon carbide inverter, is so efficient that it outdoes two induction motors. If we could decouple forward induction motor to avoid spin losses, then range of dual might be higher, but that’s a lot of complexity.
   Exactly! In fact, better to have RWD with winter tires than AWD with summer tires. We appreciate the extra expenditure if people do buy AWD, but it isn’t critical for snowy regions.
  Still get this question a lot, even though Norway 🇳🇴 has highest Tesla cars per person on 🌏 (super appreciated!). Also, AWD is nice to have, but def not required for snow/ice.
About a minute in, we flashed a teaser pic of Tesla cyberpunk truck  
End Titles from Blade Runner played after Model Y webcast cut  
Designed to feel much bigger on inside than it looks on outside. An incredibly important principle.
 There was something, but no one caught it
 _______  It also feels way bigger on the inside than it appears on the outside
 Would love to be there this year. If not, definitely next! 💛 India 💛
_______  Yeah  
  
  Exactly!
London to Beijing Supercharger route
Worth watching Revenge of the Electric Car. Covers rebirth of electric cars in general. Has footage before &amp; after we started production of our first car.  
 The hardest joke ever
 With pie 🥧
 Long-term, it’s about coupling the collective will of humanity to AI. Short-term, it’s about improving the lives of those with brain or spine problems.
  Next software update will increase storm watch sensitivity. You’re right, it’s currently too low.
  Checking into this
S3XY  
  OTA
   Plug in a USB drive to record video
 Comes with 2019.8, which finishes validation this week
Looking forward to building a Boring Company tunnel in Vegas. Assuming to be operational by end of year!
  _truth  _cga _benton   Yes
 Our “list” prices are our actual prices. Software (and automotive) vary prices frequently by changing the discount or rebate.
_Ryan Sure, that would be great
 _truth  _cga _benton   Sure
 _truth  _cga _benton   Correct
  _cga _benton   That’s the plan
  _cga _benton   Of course
 6
 _cga _benton   In retrospect, lower price shouldn’t have been offered. Was done so because some simply couldn’t afford it. Prices revert to normal on Monday.
 However, this obviously cannot be discussed with entire global stores team beforehand or news would leak
 We are still closing stores, just not as many as before. This basically splits the difference — about half as many stores closed, but then can afford only about half the price reduction. Was discussed with exec team &amp; board.
_cga _benton   When prices go down, those who already bought want the lower price, but, if prices go up, those who already bought don’t want to write Tesla a check. So it goes.
 _benton  Yes
_benton  Those prices will revert to normal on Monday too
Applies worldwide
 Yes
Tesla car prices go up ~3% next week, except for $35k Model 3. Order online at   before then for current prices.
   Couldn’t resolve all the rights issues. Will add another racing game soon.
  Ok
  Yeah, it might break
  Software release later this week should make it better
 2
 True (sigh)
 True
      _Station _Crew Probably right. Starship rate of progress far exceeds Falcon &amp; Dragon, although they’re critical to getting there. dInnovation/dt is what matters long-term.
    _Station _Crew For cargo missions, propulsive land landing should be no problem. Doesn’t have same safety criticality as crew.
   _Station _Crew Pretty much any moon or planet that has a solid or liquid surface
   _Station _Crew Most likely, but this is contingent upon NASA review &amp; approval
   _Station _Crew Best to use a giant brake pad, aka heat shield
   _Station _Crew No
  _Station _Crew Dragon 2 was designed to land using thrusters, with parachutes as backup. Switched to chutes as primary, due to difficulty of proving safety, but Dragon can still do it.  
  
  😉
_s 27,000 km/h
     Raptor on way to Hopper. Will be mounted to vehicle next week.
    NK-33 &amp; RD 170/180 are exceptional
   Thank you on behalf of SpaceX! We have always admired your rocket/spacecraft technology.
   _Crew Thank you on behalf of the people of SpaceX!
_2020 All good, system maintained room temperature within spacecraft
 Phenolic impregnated carbon ablator, version 3
Atmospheric entry at 17,000 mph is like a meteor &amp; will vaporize steel. Burn marks below are on cold side. Main heatshield on bottom.
 Yes, invitations go out tomorrow
   Getting rid of peak power splitting across two bays &amp; updated software with battery warmup results in &gt;2X improvement in fleet charge time
 We will spend 3 or 6 months with public beta of V3 in North America, make sure there are no corner case issues &amp; then begin buildout worldwide.
Those improvements are independent of Supercharger V3 power increase from 135kW to 250+kW. All factors considered, charge time will drop by factor of 4 best case &amp; more than 2 for whole Tesla fleet. Effectively, this more than doubles total WW Supercharger system throughput.
Latest software improves Tesla Supercharger times by up to 25% for all Tesla S/X/3 worldwide, incl original 2012 Model S. Not splitting power across 2 Supercharger stalls helps all cars up to 50%.
 So true 🤣
Extremely important merch  
   _benton    Net power to warm pack is especially low when motors are running, as coolant loop routes motor heat to the pack when outside is cold (&amp; rejects motor heat to air when outside is warm)
 Yes, but an engine shouldn’t count until it flies
 Ukraine did play a major role
  _benton    Very little power &amp; only right before you get to the Supercharger. You won’t notice it in range.
 _benton    If you navigate to Supercharger, car will warm up battery en route, so you start immediately at max power
Russia has excellent rocket engineering &amp; best engine currently flying. Reusable version of their new Angara rocket would be great.  
 Thanks, that sounds great!
 _com   You’re most welcome. Very proud of Tesla team. Super tough 15 years!
 Oh stop, you’ll make me blush ☺️
  Ok
Yeah, I lift a little …  
 💕💕💕  
  Tesla comms is fixing. That was a mistake.
  So cute!
 Buddy is like an Earth Pokémon
  Gap in understanding is that $35k Model 3 production *starts* this month, but will not reach volume production until mid year. Extremely difficult to predict middle part of manufacturing S-curve.
 Yes
 _Oscos  
_Oscos No, just literally having toast &amp; jam while playing Jamming
Having toast &amp; jam in kitchen while playing Jamming by Bob Marley
 _shtpst  Yes. Personally, I’m most excited by the Tesla Truck. Maybe it will be too futuristic for most people, but I love it.
 Yes, anyone will be able to take videos
 I believe so
_shtpst  No, that unveil is later this year
_NL   Slightly higher drag * slightly higher frontal area affects air friction &amp; mass affects rolling resistance &amp; hill climb. Physics is the law.
 Normal
 Yes
Detailed specs &amp; pricing will be provided, as well as test rides in Y
Model Y, being an SUV, is about 10% bigger than Model 3, so will cost about 10% more &amp; have slightly less range for same battery
Model Y unveil event on March 14 at LA Design Studio
First public Tesla V3.0 Supercharger Station goes live Wed 8pm
 _Station Спасибо за добрые слова!
SpaceX team in Hawthorne control, Dragon docked to Station above  
SpaceX Crew Dragon has docked with International _Station  
 _Station Yes, she would be able to breathe
Proximity docking sequence underway. Dragon shadow visible on on _Station solar arrays.  
 One day we will be there to see for ourselves  
 69F
  Something like this could work
_Orbiter   😉
_garrett Everyone knows Earth is hollow
 I am not a dog. Here’s a pic of me:  
  _mind _rosberg Model S will be raised to 162mph too
  _Crew  _Station Thank you. May you have good luck and godspeed with your spacecraft!
 Thank you on behalf of SpaceX. Also, thank you to , without whom this would not be possible.
 _mind _rosberg Power will increase on all cars. Top speed on 3P increases to 162mph. Range on RWD 3 increases to 325 miles.
_mind _rosberg Yes, new cars and existing fleet
_rosberg Firmware update coming later this month will increase power by ~5% &amp; top speed by 10 km/h or 7mph
_rosberg Spoiler alert: not Porsche
    Thank you on behalf of the many people of SpaceX
  _Station Lightning bolt right before launch
Earth floats gently in zero gravity  
SpaceX Crew Dragon recap   
   Need to get back to SpaceX launch control. Sorry this solution isn’t perfect.
   We’re trying to make EVs &amp; autonomy more affordable over time. This is the right thing to do. However, we cannot then also retroactively make earlier buyers whole without killing the company.
  Will take a few days for system update
 _truth  Yeah, we need a few days to update the system. If anyone already paid $3k, they should get $1k back.
  It’s not exactly symmetric, but it will come with HW3 upgrade long-term
 If you bought enhanced autopilot, FSD upgrade costs $2k instead of $5k
If you bought a Tesla before yesterday’s price reduction, you can have Autopilot or full self-driving at half normal cost (up to $6k less)
  He is the sensor!
 Nope, he’s going to float around in zero gravity
Super high tech zero-g indicator added just before launch!  
  Happy birthday!
_Marquez Yeah, just use a dryer outlet. High power, easy to install &amp; low cost.
  Explanation from Tesla later today
 Yes
  Haha
Ripley  
Base Model 3 available in Europe in ~6 months, Asia 6 to 8 months. Latter contingent on Shanghai Gigafactory. Country-specific taxes &amp; import duties mean price may be 25% or more above US number.
    Exactly
 No reductions from here
  For sure. It fundamentally improves quality of life.
 Best choice for most people is standard range plus with Autopilot
Exact Tesla Model 3 in my profile pic costs $35k before incentives &amp; takes 1 minute to buy online at  
   I think we should do something here. Will talk with team &amp; send out a note in next few days.
_ Should be ~5% peak power increase with March 15 software release
   Scheduled for March 15 release, along with many other improvements
  Everyone who bought Enhanced Autopilot will get Navigate on Autopilot on highways, advanced summon &amp; autopark
 😍😍😍😍😍😍
 I was being too obvious
Make the Mars Technocracy real
 Yay!
ET phone home. No answer 😢
Some Tesla news
 Haha
    Yes
Stop censoring science!  
 Because it costs $2500 to transport to east coast &amp; everyone pays same
California
Thursday 2pm
  _w of SpaceX propulsion still very active, so only ~50 full-time equivalent people right now. That will grow a lot as we enter production. It’s 10X harder (at least) to design engine production system than engine. In automotive, 100X harder.
       Maybe active in a month or so. Focus right now is getting to high speed, tight follow distance in test tunnel.
       Yes, exciting potential
      Exactly
  _wwww  Printers are too small. Also, high pressure, high efficiency engines need copper cooling channels with an inco/steel jacket. Can’t print yet.
     Exactly. This has now happened several times. Something is broken with SEC oversight.
 _wwww  Tom did an awesome job leading Merlin, Kestrel, Draco &amp; other engine developments from start through 2014 that were critical to SpaceX’s success. Great respect &amp; appreciation!
 Thank you Evelyn, I loved it
   Indeed. I have great respect for judges. It’s not perfect, but, in general, we should be very glad of the US justice system.
  SEC forgot to read Tesla earnings transcript, which clearly states 350k to 500k. How embarrassing … 🤗
Oh hi lol  
Fate *loves* irony. Frankly, too much.
Meetings are a valuable use of time!  
 There’s a 🐜 in my 👟 🤣
  
Respawn++  
Great meme review hosted by Will Smith
 Haha true
 It’s designed to be way better. We’ll see what reality has to say about that.
 Yes, lot of risk
  Guys, I have feelings … 😜
   Focusing on Starship instead
  Deorbits &amp; burns up over the Pacific
  Upper stage is flight, except mass sim in place of Merlin. It will get fragged for sure by aero loads &amp; Dragon abort thrusters.
  Including Heavy, which is 3 cores, around 20 or so
 Depends on when Crew Dragon comes back. That’s scheduled for launch next Saturday, but lot of new hardware, so time error bars are big.
 High probability of this particular rocket getting destroyed by Dragon supersonic abort test. Otherwise, at least 20 or 30 missions for Falcon 9. Starship will take over before the F9 fleet reaches end of life.
 Crew Dragon high altitude abort test
 Yes 😀
Highest reentry heating to date. Burning metal sparks from base heat shield visible in landing video. Fourth relight scheduled for April.
      _of_racing    Always liked Kestrel. It was the Robin Hood of engines.
        _of_racing    Advanced, reusable rockets are all we need to become a multiplanet civilization. Once we have a city on Mars, interplanetary travel will create a forcing function for vast improvements in spaceflight.
          _of_racing    SN2 has changes that should help
         _of_racing    To the first part. I doubt we’d create a Dyson ring or sphere.
         _of_racing    Yes
         _of_racing    Merlins. The max chamber pressure run damaged Raptor SN 1 (as expected). A lot of the parts are fine for reuse, but next tests will be with SN 2, which is almost done.
        _of_racing    Anti-matter production would require vast amounts of energy. No need though. We have a super reliable, massive, free fusion reactor called the sun.
       _of_racing    Exactly. Super money move is anti-matter drive, especially if you solve capturing antiprotons in deep space.
     _of_racing    You can see the streaks on the vacuum Merlin nozzle in flight videos
     _of_racing    Pinter injector tends to have hot &amp; cold streaks. Hot streaks burn a rut at the throat that accelerates erosion.
   Essentially, yes. Great engineering talent, but should focus on reusable rockets for purpose of a permanent human base on the moon and self-sustaining city on Mars.
_CO  We are constrained by the accredited investor rule, but will think about how this could be done
    _of_racing    Yeah, that was a bit embarrassing ☺️High engine chamber pressure and ablative don’t get along. Ok for low pressure, expendable upper stage.
   _of_racing    That’s true 😀 Merlin 1A was terrible. 1C was ok, 1D good, but block 5 Merlin (should probably be called 1E) is something special. Took about 15 years to get there.
   Actually, they received (and still receive) almost a billion dollars a year for “launch capability”. Even if they do zero launches, US govt still gives them that.
  Don’t know
 SpaceX commercial 🚀 launch market share went from 0% in 2010 to 65% in 2018. Despite massive subsidies to Boeing/Lockeed, they have never won a fair competition against SpaceX for several years.  
   Exactly. That’s the critical point for Starship/BFR: more payload than the biggest rocket ever made, but for less money per launch than the smallest (orbital) rocket. Without something that lowers orbital flight cost by 100X, humanity will never be a multiplanet species.
_of_racing    SpaceX Merlin architecture is simpler than staged combustion (eg SSME or RD), but it has world record for thrust/weight &amp; thrust/cost engine. Raptor has better Isp, but I’m worried it may fall short on those two critical metrics.
 So true 🤡 John Clarke 👌
  Not true. Limiting factor in any staged combustion rocket engine, liquid/gas or gas/gas, is pressure &amp; temperature in oxygen preburner
_Heats  Whoever owns the early BTC deserves a Nobel prize in delayed gratification
 That said, I still only own 0.25 BTC, which a friend sent me several years ago. Don’t have any crypto holdings.
 I have been chief engineer/designer at SpaceX from day 1. Had I been better, our first 3 launches might have succeeded, but I learned from those mistakes.  
Meant to say annualized production rate at end of 2019 probably around 500k, ie 10k cars/week. Deliveries for year still estimated to be about 400k.
 Won’t be long before they do
Tesla made 0 cars in 2011, but will make around 500k in 2019
4000 Tesla cars loading in SF for Europe  
 The gritty truth …
Did meme review last night with Justin Roiland from 
 Agreed. Also needs option for automatically on all locations or if unknown location.
 Pics are so clear in space!
_feed That last bit gives a good sense of what orbit is like
  Also, Tesla was competing for some of same people as OpenAI &amp; I didn’t agree with some of what OpenAI team wanted to do. Add that all up &amp; it was just better to part ways on good terms.
  I had to focus on solving a painfully large number of engineering &amp; manufacturing problems at Tesla (especially) &amp; SpaceX
 To clarify, I’ve not been involved closely with OpenAI for over a year &amp; don’t have mgmt or board oversight

SpaceX foundry casting Raptor engine manifold out of Inconel  
  It will soon
 _Ruiz17    Yes, Autopilot max speed is 5mph above speed limit off highway or 90mph on highway

Of course I still love you  
 This is in addition to existing Cabin Overheat Protection, which come on automatically at high temps to ensure any babies or pets in the car are safe
     Yes ♥️ 🎼
    It will start out slow to make sure there are no corner case issues and then, if that looks good, speed up next week. We def need to add a “Request Latest Update” feature!
   Updating …
      Wow, 2013
CNBC - “Tesla Model 3 ranked most satisfying car”  
 True, that headline is not exactly going to win a Pulitzer for originality
   Probably a month or two. Sentry mode became top priority, so pushed that out a bit.
  Some sites maintained an almost daily Tesla deathwatch 11 years ago, reporting with an awful delight. 4000 days later …
Tesla Model X first SUV to receive a perfect crash test rating   via 
Bet the other carmakers didn’t see that one coming haha
 _Gardi    Yeah, but simpler. Needed for landing burn or engines will suck in a bubble.
 хаха офигенно
_Gardi    Starship &amp; Super Heavy will press tanks autogenously even in version 1. Very important, as helium costs more than oxygen on Falcon, even though liquid oxygen is 2/3 vehicle mass &amp; helium weighs basically nothing.
  Luke, I am your farter.
  Thanks Jack, Twitter rocks! 🤡😎🌪💩🔥🥜💨🍃💫🚀🥰
To air is human
_AA_Carmack Agreed
 Sorry  Had a vital mission in Norway  Now I am back
_Gardi    True
    _Gardi  Moon first, Mars as soon as the planets align
     On my bedside table
    A biography on Korolev has center place in my study
   _Gardi  Just planning on keeping the public informed about progress &amp; setbacks. Will be some RUDs along the way, but excitement is guaranteed!
   _Gardi  The goodwill of the public is critical to Starship’s success
  _Gardi  At least 10X cheaper
  _Gardi  Very dependent on volume, but I’m confident moving to Mars (return ticket is free) will one day cost less than $500k &amp; maybe even below $100k. Low enough that most people in advanced economies could sell their home on Earth &amp; move to Mars if they want.
  _Gardi  Yes
 _Gardi  This will sound implausible, but I think there’s a path to build Starship / Super Heavy for less than Falcon 9
 _Gardi  Close
_Gardi  But not an extendable nozzle though, as that just saves length. Nozzle diameter is limited by body diameter.
   Much above 300 bar main chamber pressure means extreme oxygen preburner pressure of 700 to 800+ bar. Definitely pushing the limit of known physics.
@_cgp  Propellant was not deep cryo. CH4 &amp; O2 were just barely below liquid temp at 1 bar. In theory, Raptor should do ~300 bar at deep cryo, provided everything holds together, which is far from certain. However, only 250 bar is needed for nominal operation of Starship/Super Heavy.
_Gardi  Yes, aiming for 380 sec Isp with vac nozzle. Maybe 382 if we get lucky.
  I think 6 where we lit main chamber &amp; several with only preburners
  About 11 secs
  Definitely! It’s amazing that the RD-170 &amp; RD-180 engines held the record for so many decades. Excellent engineering.
Raptor reached 268.9 bar today, exceeding prior record held by the awesome Russian RD-180. Great work by  engine/test team!  
  I was simply too sexy for it  
 Maybe tomorrow
Just left Zeebrugge, now Tilburg, then Tesla HQ in Amsterdam &amp; Oslo tonight to review service in Norway. Exciting to see thousands of Model 3’s on their way to owners in Europe!  
 Hope they don’t find this pic!  
😅 thank goodness it’s not November
 a
I want you too baby
Joe Rogan describes Tesla for 4 mins &amp; 20 secs  
  _Gardi Booster center of mass is much lower &amp; more consistent (no payload mass to consider), so still biases towards engine first entry
 _Gardi  Technically, the steel is radiatively cooled (not uncooled). T^4 is one of the most interesting things about reality!
 _Gardi  Rocket booster temperatures won’t go much above 600 Kelvin on hottest parts of main body &amp; maybe around 1200K on base, which uncooled steel can handle. Starship is around 1700K for a Mach 25 entry, so needs shielding of some kind.
  Prob wise for version 1 to have legs or we will frag a lot of launch pads
 Welded, internal, longitudinal hat stringers. To the degree it may need hoop stiffness (prob not), combine with slosh baffles.
 The Super Heavy booster is only needed on Earth, so think of this as just “Starship” &amp; sometimes it needs a boost, hence Super Heavy
🔥🖤 SpaceX Engineering 🖤🔥
 Telekinesis
 Vaporized some copper
   Sentry Mode (and Dog Mode) roll out next week
Design requires at least 170 metric tons of force. Engine reached 172 mT &amp; 257 bar chamber pressure with warm propellant, which means 10% to 20% more with deep cryo.
Raptor just achieved power level needed for Starship &amp; Super Heavy  
 Sorry, many unexpected challenges with cars coming through Zeebrugge first time. Cars will start moving out in volume tomorrow.
  
 We’re doing everything we can to get there. It’s a super hard grind.
  Exactly. Both prices are shown right next to each other &amp; lower price is *actually* the real apples to apples cost vs a fuel car. In fact, for many states in the US, it’s way better.
 VAT of ~20% &amp; import duties of ~10% usually result in a 30% higher cost in Europe
💙 Mach Diamonds 💙
 Glad you like it
    Spark plugs ignite dual blow torches that ignite preburners &amp; main chamber
   Gaseous CH4/O2 &amp; heavy duty spark plugs. Basically, a 💨 of insane power 😀
    Will do, although SpaceX reddit is very well-informed. Really impressive analysis by some commenters.
   Engine use methox torch igniters. Green tinge is either camera saturation or a tiny bit of copper from the chamber.


First firing of Starship Raptor flight engine! So proud of great work by  team!!  
 We will when it rolls out
  Yes
At  Texas with engineering team getting ready to fire new Raptor rocket engine  
 soon
Only a matter of time  
   That might be the ultimate superpower
How Model 3 performs on a long road trip   
  I’m openly moderate. There, I said it.
  Haha how is this even real?
_  No, payload will actually increase
 Exactly
 I do like nonsense memes. It’s true.
Yes  
  
  Next few days
💩 looks like sentient choc ice cream
Just bought   oh yeah
_news Whoa cool
  No plans to do so. Would recommend Model S.
_45th  7
  ♥️ logarithms
   Dammit! 😀
    We’ll tweak the alloy over time, so it won’t exactly be 301, but close
  Well, my past mistakes do seem extremely dumb, especially the ones where I mistakenly thought I was smart
 Rocket mass ratio is about the same for aluminum-lithium vs 301 stainless full hard at cryo, but latter costs way less, is tougher &amp; doesn’t even need paint!
     Still up to 31. Will probably fly with fewer initially in case it blows up.
    Mostly true
  Cold gas thrusters only. Will use body flaps &amp; main engines for landing orientation, so won’t need high thrust reaction control. Simplifies things considerably.
  Yes
Initially making one 200 metric ton thrust engine common across ship &amp; booster to reach the moon as fast as possible. Next versions will split to vacuum-optimized (380+ sec Isp) &amp; sea-level thrust optimized (~250 ton).
Preparing to fire the Starship Raptor engine at  Texas  
   Yes. It’s very rare to find all three.
  To be clear, I’m confident that a stainless steel ship will be lighter than advanced aluminum or carbon fiber, because of strength to weight vs temperature &amp; reduced need for heat shielding
  Will probably make booster legs/flaps same as ship, instead of like F9
  Yes, ship needs pitch/roll/yaw control across wide Mach regime &amp; angle of attack
  Absolutely. You’ve touched on a very important point. The ship must be easy to repair on the moon and Mars.
    And Tesla Gigafactory is steadily becoming self-powered by solar
 About 10 orbit synch windows, which are every 26 months, so self-sufficiency around 2050
All our patent are belong to you    
Our true competition is not the small trickle of non-Tesla electric cars being produced, but rather the enormous flood of gasoline cars pouring out of the world’s factories every day
Exciting to see all the new electric vehicles coming to market! We created Tesla to accelerate a sustainable future &amp; it’s happening!  
  Tasty food!
 It’s designed for 100 people on a Mars journey
 Super appreciate Deepak’s 11 year history building Tesla &amp; wish him greatest of happiness in retirement! Zach has been outstanding over his 9 year history with Tesla &amp; will build upon Deepak’s legacy.
    Sure, which ones?
   You’re most welcome! Very thoughtful questions.
   Max Tegmark is great
Entropy is the source and the end of life in this instance of the Multiverse  
 3 guys standing on roof of skyscraper. 1st guy says updraft is so strong it blows you back on roof of you jump off. He jumps off &amp; is blown back on roof. 2nd guy tries &amp; goes splat. 3rd guy: that was a dirty trick Superman.
If heat death will be inevitable end of Universe, it actually *is* all about journey 🤔
Entropy is the ultimate boss battle
 Haha
tbh smh
 Haha true
SpaceX documentary actual footage  
All we had back then was carpet &amp; a mariachi band. Now, SPACESHIP!!
_over_ideal  Sure hope that happens
Great electric car documentary about early days of Tesla, GM Volt, Nissan Leaf &amp; Gadget. So much has happened since then …  
 We are so tiny
 You drive a hard bargain, but … ok
 $5
Host meme review?  
 It’s an honor, sir! Thanks for owning a Tesla.
Tap Tesla logo at top of your car’s touchscreen &amp; wait 10 secs to open special features box
Still my favorite tweet of all time
 Ok, we’ll throw that in too
But, occasionally, the metal version  
_Enough Haha
Tesla Sentry Mode will play Bach’s Toccata and Fugue during a robbery (and keep Summer safe)  
 All doors unlock automatically when the Tesla comes to a stop after an accident. There is both primary &amp; backup power to doors, brakes, steering &amp; airbags.
 Cool that this is happening on many fronts. Looks like a good design by .
  Yeah, worked on my cousin’s farm for six weeks around my 18th birthday. I was so kewl.  
  Many cold weather improvements coming via OTA software
_ So tempting …
 It’s like looking in a mirror!
 That would be so cool!
 Yes, and my grandfather was from Minnesota with some Scandinavian/German background. Got to hand it to Norway. That’s a great sculpture!
Awesome moose sculpture! ♥️🇳🇴  
  Rough beta in 2 to 3 weeks
 Feature has now been in place for 8 months
   These are industrial strength. Not recommended for use at home!
Testing metallic heat shield at 1100C (2000F)   
  _Station  
   _Station Sure. Also, we need to be better at remembering brightness settings.
   _Station 💡😀
  _Station The youth love em
If test flight of 🐉 goes well next month,  👨‍🚀 👩‍🚀 will 🚀 to _Station this summer!
  Actual tanks are fine
 ~1750K is peak heating expected on about 20% of Starship for LEO entry, ~1600K on 20%. Rest drops below 1450K, so no heat shield needed. Radiative cooling at T^4 takes care of 60% of the ship. Another reason for steel.
  I just heard. 50 mph winds broke the mooring blocks late last night &amp; fairing was blown over. Will take a few weeks to repair.
 310S stainless is better for high temp outer skin, as it can take ~1450 Kelvin, so active cooling with cryogenic fuel only has to mitigate 300 degrees of delta temp
 Almost ready to roll out. Regulators just approved.
  Since it’s part of safety &amp; security, all cars with AP2+ hardware will get it
Tesla Sentry Mode coming soon for all cars with Enhanced Autopilot
_Space   Yes. Also, despite high outside heat, rapid water vaporization can counter-intuitively cause it to snap freeze &amp; block cooling channels.
 Coming soon. Lots of unique road markings &amp; signs in each country.
 When going to ~1750 Kelvin, specific heat is more important than latent heat of vaporization, which is why cryogenic fuel is a slightly better choice than water
 untrue
 Roughly 4 to 20 minutes for light to travel from Earth to Mars
 Director of CERN asked me about Boring Co building the new LHC tunnel when we were at the . Would probably save several billon Euros.
  Yes
Blood moon over LA tonight  ()  
 The _Station zooms around the world about every 90 mins
 Tesla is the safest car according to US govt testing
   I wish them well. Track record in auto startups is tough. Thousands of US auto startups, but only Ford &amp; Tesla have avoided bankruptcy. A similar scenario is likely in all countries.
 Wow
 Yup
  Thanks, good idea!
 Yes, ending on Feb 1. It’s adding too much cost to the cars, especially Model 3.
 _ny93 Order must occur before Feb 1
_ny93 No, the whole referral incentive system will end
The Tesla customer referral program will end on Feb 1. If you want to refer a friend to buy a Tesla &amp; give them 6 months of free Supercharging, please do so before then.
   I think some of them should combine forces. Talent is spread too thin.
  Dragon 2 was originally designed to land with thrusters, but it’s not the right architecture for heavy transport to the moon or Mars, so we decided not to qualify it for thruster landings
 How many electric vehicle startups are there? Seems like a lot.
  Teslarati is very thoughtful &amp; well-written, but this stems from a miscommunication by SpaceX
  The LA Times has a long track of unreasonable attacks on SpaceX &amp; Tesla, but in this case it was our miscommunication
 The source info is incorrect. Starship &amp; Raptor development is being done out of our HQ in Hawthorne, CA. We are building the Starship prototypes locally at our launch site in Texas, as their size makes them very difficult to transport.
 Haha you’re welcome! Hope you’re doing well.
   About $15M/km for a two way high speed transit, so probably around $750M plus maybe $50M/station
Glad you like it
    Yes
LA is so beautiful after the rain  
SpaceX Dragon from as seen from _Station viewport  
Falcon comes home  
  We are not yet offering the mid range Model 3 in Europe
 Which country? There is a 10% import duty, ~20% VAT (US prices don’t include sales tax) and about $2000 in extra shipping cost, but it shouldn’t add up to $25k.
View of SpaceX Dragon 1 berthed with _Station in the last Cupola opening. Dragon 2 (Crew Dragon) launching soon.
 Ok
Obv must be more pointy tho
It needed to be made real
 Haha

Starship Hopper will do vertical flight tests similar to the Falcon 9 Hopper  
  Body/tank diameter is 9m or about 30ft
  Should be done with first orbital prototype around June
_tyler Yes
 Yes
 Yes
This is for suborbital VTOL tests. Orbital version is taller, has thicker skins (won’t wrinkle) &amp; a smoothly curving nose section.
Starship test flight rocket just finished assembly at the  Texas launch site. This is an actual picture, not a rendering.  
  Yes
 _Ryan Getting some regulatory pushback. May not be available in all regions.
_Ryan Going through final validation &amp; regulatory approval. Probably releases to early access program owners in a few weeks. It’s trippy!
 Yes 🚀
Tesla *with* Autopilot engaged is twice as safe &amp; continues to make steady improvements
_ Def not
@_Ali_Gray Yes
Starting on Monday, Tesla will no longer be taking orders for the 75 kWh version of the Model S &amp; X. If you’d like that version, please order by Sunday night at  
 Good idea
 It’s an option
  Vertically or horizontally?
  No problem
 Plus, you can basically accelerate at the limit of human endurance
_sveberg  I don’t think the law fully anticipated this situation. So probably yes for a while.
 I’m not. Will use SpaceX cold gas thruster system with ultra high pressure air in a composite over-wrapped pressure vessel in place of the 2 rear seats.
 It will be
Btw, you can buy a Tesla online in less than 2 mins &amp; give it back for a full refund for any reason  
 😉
The new Roadster will actually do something like this
  
And now … we dance!  
 Great thread 🤣
  
Shanghai Giga will produce affordable versions of 3/Y for greater China. All Model S/X &amp; higher cost versions of Model 3/Y will still be built in US for WW market, incl China.
 Shanghai Giga output is just for greater China, not North America. Affordable cars must be made on same continent as customers.
Shanghai Giga production of Model 3/Y will serve greater China region
Aiming to finish initial construction this summer, start Model 3 production end of year &amp; reach high volume production next year
Looking forward to breaking ground on the  Shanghai Gigafactory today!
Good sign that almost no Model 3 owners want to sell their cars!

 Yes, will be extremely intense. Early flights are especially dangerous, as there’s a lot of new hardware.
Sorry, to be clear, this pic is all real. Nothing rendered.
Falcon 9 on launch pad with Crew Dragon &amp; new astronaut walkway  
_nafnlaus    Spiral-winding is great for uniform thickness. We used that for the Hyperloop vacuum tunnel. However, Starship skin thickness will vary considerably according to loads.
_Sasaki _nafnlaus   Exactly
_Saboyo It’s all in the way you say it
Matt DeBord reviews all Tesla models   via 
_Obie I do love Tintin
  More on this in a few months
Starship test vehicle under assembly will look similar to this illustration when finished. Operational Starships would obv have windows, etc.  
  Aiming for 4 weeks, which probably means 8 weeks, due to unforeseen issues
Good shot of  Starship flight test vehicle being assembled in Boca Chica, Texas
  _  Engines currently on Starship hopper are a blend of Raptor development &amp; operational parts. First hopper engine to be fired is almost finished assembly in California. Probably fires next month.
 _  Haha
 Not yet
_  That’s a reasonable question
About a month away from the first orbital test flight of crew Dragon
   Probably
  
 _Boeree That’s what I heard
_Boeree Life is made of ups &amp; downs
_IRL   
 Appears to be simulations all the way down …
All parameters in a simulation are necessarily quantized
Three quarks for Muster Mark!
  Wutf
 What you think I do
…
   Ok
_g_fischer  srsly
 6/5 ⭐️
 To a dyslexic agnostic, there is no …
Evian, the first bottled water, is naive spelled backwards
There are no coincidences  
Model 3 mid-range EPA rating is actually 264 miles, slightly higher than prior estimate of 260  
      Checking …
 😲
     Reveals wheels?
    Weirdly, all the negative press seems to increase sales!
    Btw, I like your gaming equipment
    Sounds great, will connect you with Tesla Energy
   Singapore has enough area to switch to solar/battery &amp; be energy-independent
  Yes, support of the Chinese government is very much appreciated
 Govt has been unwelcome
 Congratulations!
Great work by Tesla Team!
Congratulations  team!!  
 Thanks!
 Haha
Haha
Hope everyone has a happy New Year!
_Ryan Happy New Year!
Good summary of Tesla progress in 2018 by  (due to Tesla team, not me though)   via 
  Thanks Tesla owners in China! Looking forward to visiting soon for the groundbreaking of Gigafactory Shanghai!
 Turns out if you take Dayquil, you exit The Matrix
Excited to have Larry Ellison &amp; Kathleen Wilson-Thompson join the Tesla board!  
  Ok
 Tesla team did a great job!
  2020
 Yes
      I will provide a detailed explanation in March/April
     Time. Although it also turned out to be dramatically better.
    Exactly
    Yes
   Probability at 60% &amp; rising rapidly due to new architecture
  30%
 Congratulations
 Coming soon
 Yes
 Got it 😀🇺🇦
 Definitely. All major highways in Texas will have Superchargers, all the way to Brownsville &amp; across Mexico.
 Yep
 Yes
Yes. Supercharger coverage will extend to 100% of Europe next year. From Ireland to Kiev, from Norway to Turkey.
Most people don’t know that the Tesla Supercharger network allows easy long distance travel throughout USA, most of Europe, Canada and China  
 We are dramatically increasing Tesla Superchargers within cities &amp; working with landlords to add home charging to apartment buildings
  Ok
_Cautillo Wow!
_Richards   This is incorrect. Vast majority of vehicle motion is returned to the battery, as the electric motors act like a generator in reverse. Brake pads on a Tesla literally never need to be replaced for lifetime of the car.
Most importantly, every electric car, Tesla or otherwise, matters to the environment we all share. Every time someone chooses electric, the future gets a little bit brighter!  If not Tesla, please take a look at these other options:  
And, because electricity costs much less than gasoline, a Model 3 can cost about $1000 less per year to operate. Because it’s electric, there are no oil changes, smog checks, tuneups, fuel filter, or brake pad replacements.
There are also many state &amp; local incentives, for example California offers $2500, plus $800 from utilities &amp; access to carpool lane, Colorado $4000, etc  
Reminder to US buyers that the $7500 tax credit cuts in half in 5 days! Order online at   to see if there is any inventory left in your region or visit Tesla stores.
Merry Christmas &amp; goodwill to all!! ⛄️ 🎄 🎁 🎅 💝 😀
   _de  No, Raptors must be shielded during atmospheric entry. Although, maybe not ...
   Thanks, hope you have a good holiday! Your insight on autonomy is excellent.
 Sigh
_bowie Yes
  _de  Leeward side needs nothing, windward side will be activity cooled with residual (cryo) liquid methane, so will appear liquid silver even on hot side
  Glad you’re ok!
_de  Starship will look like liquid silver
  Haha 🤣
  _de  Maybe
 _de  Much less
_de  Skin will get too hot for paint. Stainless mirror finish. Maximum relfectivity.
 3
 Usable strength/weight of full hard stainless at cryo is slightly better than carbon fiber, room temp is worse, high temp is vastly better
 Yes, signal acquired from that dish
Stainless Steel Starship  
  Which seems to be the approximate pixel size of reality
  When it’s no longer noticeable over Planck’s length
 Yes! People are almost always surprised to learn that Earth’s gravitational reach is infinite. “Zero gravity” is achieved by zooming around Earth super fast until outward acceleration equals inward acceleration of gravity.
At SpaceX Boca Chica launch site in Texas  
Amazing space progress by China. This year they did more orbital launches than the USA for the first time.
Engineering is true magic
 Yezzz
       How bizarre. Sorry to hear that.
 Putting in little outward-facing speakers would open up a lot of opportunities …
Please put “invented car fart” on my gravestone. This is my only request.
     @_Synders _Gardi    Our superalloy foundry is now almost fully operational. This allows rapid iteration on Raptor.
     @_Synders _Gardi    SpaceX metallurgy team developed SX500 superalloy for 12000 psi, hot oxygen-rich gas. It was hard. Almost any metal turns into a flare in those conditions.
 Thanks!
  @_Synders _Gardi     It’s embarrassing that Boeing/Lockheed need to use a Russian engine on Atlas, but that engine design is brilliant
  @_Synders _Gardi     You def don’t want electric pumps on a rocket engine! Raptor turbopumps alone need 100,000 horsepower per engine. That’s not a typo.
  @_Synders _Gardi     Yes, full flow, gas-gas, staged combustion. Will take us time to work up to 300 bar. That is a mad level.
 @_Synders _Gardi      Yes. Radically redesigned Raptor ready to fire next month.
     Seriously! We are just on the wrong planet for SSTO. Mars, no problem.
@_Synders _Gardi       Starlink V1 on Falcon, V2+ on Starship. Basically, all future products will contain either the word “star” or “link” 😀
     Yes, but single stage to orbit with no payload is pointless. Add Super Heavy rocket booster &amp; orbital payload is gigantic. Only need booster on Earth, due to deep gravity well &amp; thick atmosphere. Starship alone on moons &amp; Mars.
_Gardi       Coldformed at cryo
        This test hopper is at full body diameter of 9m / 30 ft, just not full height. Super Heavy will be full height &amp; diameter.
       We’re building subsections of the Starship Mk I orbital design there
       Exactly
      For sheet/plate, at supplier made to our spec. For cast, in our Hawthorne foundry.
      Yes
     I will do a full technical presentation of Starship after the test vehicle we’re building in Texas flies, so hopefully March/April
     Yup. Actually, the only significant design element in common with early Atlas is stainless steel &amp; we’re using a different alloy mix. I super ♥️ 300 Series Stainless!
    While there are some material similarities, Starship is very different from the Atlas design
    Stainless steel is correct, but different mixture of alloys &amp; new architecture. Unlike Atlas, Starship is buckling stable on launchpad even when unpressurized.
 If Tesla committed delivery &amp; customer made good faith efforts to receive before year end, Tesla will cover the tax credit difference
 Coming soon
 It will be tight, but Tesla production should have all mid-range Model 3 orders delivered by year end
  Try connecting to WiFi
Tesla has released all cars for sale where original customer can’t take delivery before year end, as well as test drive / display cars, which cost less.  Reminder to US buyers that $7500 tax credit drops in half in 8 days. Order online at   or visit stores.
   Only if Dawkins joins
 Interesting
 👌
💛 Bajirao Mastani 💛    
Anxiety is a scalar, fear is a vector
 Yes
 Haha
 Namaste 🙏
 Needs a warmup
_Station  _DavidS Must feel amazing up there in microgravity zooming around the Earth every 90 minutes! Hope you have a Merry Christmas!
 Thanks, will consider next year
  So long as the tunnels are spaced about one diameter apart, most of the stress will flow around them, but this won’t matter for the first few layers
Tesla phone app release next week will enable service scheduling in 2 mins with a few taps. No more need to call!
 😴
  💨
 💨
As a thank you to Tesla short sellers, we named a 💨 after them haha  
  👍
Perhaps lost in the transport debate is that  built a 6000 ft tunnel in LA for ~$10M with V1 (Godot). Next tunnel will be made with V2 (Line-Storm). V3 (Prufrock), aspirationally 10X better, should be operational next year. For reference:  
Join our underground movement!
 Reverse back down (using same roller guide wheels, so no skill required) &amp; tow or flatbed it out
   Ok 😀💨
     Autopilot doesn’t need the guide wheels. They’re only there if there is a complete system failure. Turns will definitely be banked in future.
Are tunnels safe in an earthquake?  
     Exactly
    The guides are basically just a wheel, a shock absorber &amp; a solenoid. Costs a few hundred dollars in volume.
 Yeah, it would allow many streets to become parks and walking areas. Less concrete, more trees.
  Probably only need three types: straight ramp, spiral ramp &amp; elevator. Latter only for tight spaces.
   Passive lateral safety is required by regulators &amp; I think they’re right. Might be able to build this into the tunnel wall though. So long as the vehicle is prevented by physics from rolling or jackknifing, there is probably a good safety argument.
  You’re right. We did have a sim ready, but it was confusing, so I didn’t include it. We’re working on one that makes things clear.
 Pop up, park and walk!
 I know that area well. Best would be to add ramps into the tunnel system from the basement levels of the parking lots surrounding 3rd St.
If all vehicles were densely seated buses, throughput in excess of 100,000 people per hour per lane is possible, but better to offer a range of vehicles &amp; let people decide what makes them happy
A variety of vehicles, like normal roads, from a small car to a densely seated bus. Must be seated &amp; belted for high speed safety.
Next step for  Loop is demonstrating high throughput at high speed. Target is 4000 vehicles/hour at 155mph (250km/h).
   Precisely
Presentation starting at 8:15
  This *is* affordable mass transit, but better in that it takes you where and when you to go
The demo ride takes you in *same* car on road, down elevator, zips through tunnel using guide wheels, up elevator at destination &amp; then drives on normal roads back to start
  Actually way more capacity, way faster &amp; way more convenient. Subways are fine, but it’s time to upgrade to something better.
All Boring Loops will include continuously circulating cars dedicated to pedestrians &amp; cyclists
Capable of traveling safely at over 150mph. At that speed, it will feel like teleporting within a city.
  Yes
This can be applied to any autonomous, electric vehicle, not just Tesla
Tesla in  tunnel with retractable wheel gear that turns a car into a rail-guided train &amp; back again  
Boring product launch will be streamed live at 8pm California time tonight  
   Boring is developing an entirely new system of transport
 Same applies to those who didn’t order PUP
  Exactly. It’s a good way to go. Get people with more money to pay for the development!
_isly  Yeah, I wrote that back in 2006, almost 13 years ago!
 Clayton is wrong. New tech is always expensive. Tech disruption occurs at *high end*, eg computers &amp; cell phones. It takes many design iterations &amp; vast economies of scale to achieve mass market affordability.  
Honored to work with amazing teams at SpaceX &amp; Tesla!
  Totally false. Buried in this incredibly misleading WSJ article is the actual statement from Thiel’s Founder’s Fund: “we have no concerns whatsoever.”
 Same facts, same period of time, but extremely different reporting
 ‘Tis
Medieval Futurism
Tesla 💨 app almost done. Important to get every note right!
   Thanks!
   The white seats are actually extremely stain resistant. You can spill red wine on the seats &amp; just wipe it off.
   Congratulations!
In other words, you may be able to get a Tesla before the $7500 US tax credit drops in 2 weeks, even if you haven’t placed an order yet
  You got it
 Pretty good. I have confirmation turned off on my engineering build &amp; interventions are rare. Probably ready to enable no confirmation setting next month.

 _xalher   👍
 Zero Suit 😉
 God Fire
💕🍜 ramen is sooo good🍜 💕
 Exactly 😀
 This part is true. I was trying to explain that we don’t want our cars to have a “tinny” sound.  
_Papa  You should def have a loaner. Will take care of it.
 Seems likely that we’ll be able to reuse fairings that soft-landed in the ocean. May not need net at all. Would still love to see the catch happen though ⚾️ 👍
 Incorrect. “Chairman” is an honorific, not executive role, which means it’s not needed to run Tesla. Will retire that title at Tesla in 3 years. 60 Mins edited out end of my sentence, where I said I could do whatever I want. They cut “provided I have the support of shareholders”.
 About 10 to 14 days
Also, Tesla policy is that if you order a car without a test drive you get 3 days to return for full refund vs 1 day if you do get a test drive (resources are overbooked)
Important note for US Tesla buyers: Federal tax credit drops by $3750 in 3 weeks.   To be on the cancellation waitlist for delivery this year or if you want a display car, order at   or visit our stores. Full refund if Tesla can’t deliver your car this year.
 No need to wait. It’s super easy to swap the HW2 and HW3 computers. Sensors are the same.
 I’m dying to make a pickup truck so bad … we might have a prototype to unveil next year
 Yes
Love that people are buying a Tesla for the product itself, even if they don’t believe in climate change.   Not everyone can be convinced about global warming, but if an electric car is simply the best product, they don’t need to be.
    Probably next month
  You’re right. There was a ton of footage with many people at Tesla that would be great to share. Longer pieces like we did with  tell a more interesting story.
  We’re opening a lot of Tesla service centers next year, including Knoxville. Tesla will post upcoming city opening map this week.
  Probably end of next year
  _io  So true 🦙💩✨😴
 This is a very misleading edit. Please post the full transcript where I complete the sentence.
       60 Mins actually had several hours of interview time, which they distilled to 14 mins. Many stories could been told with that time. This was accurate as viewed from an Upper East Side Manhattan dinner party.
 We are awaiting EU regulatory approval for this release
 Full self-driving option is required with the Tesla designed hardware 3 computer. This is a simple plug in replacement for the NVidia computer, but has over 10X the image processing ability.
Already testing traffic lights, stop signs &amp; roundabouts in development software. Your Tesla will soon be able to go from your garage at home to parking at work with no driver input at all.
If you have a Tesla built in past 2 years, definitely try Navigate on Autopilot. It will blow your mind. Automatically passes slow cars &amp; takes highway interchanges &amp; off-ramps.
  Machete!!
 It was supposed to be, but that was a dumb decision. In the end, Roadster only had 7% of parts in common with the Lotus Elise or any other car.
Major credit to AC Propulsion for the tzero electric sports car 1997-2003 that inspired Tesla Roadster. Without that, Tesla wouldn’t exist or would have started much later.  
 Yeah, we wanted to name our company after Tesla, the great scientist/engineer, but use of the Tesla name in automotive was already trademarked in the US, Europe &amp; later China.
 Buying   took over a decade, $11M &amp; amazing amount of effort. Didn’t like   even when we were only making 🚘.
Tesla history trivia: we didn’t actually come up with the Tesla Motors name. Bought trademark off Brad Siewert for $75k in late 2004. He’d originally filed for it in 1994. Our alternative name was Faraday, which was used by a competitor several years later.
     Both, but demo Starship is being built now, whereas Super Heavy hardware will start getting built in spring
    But cool pics of the demo Starship that will fly suborbital hops coming in ~4 weeks
    Yes
 Interesting
    Fairly heavy metal, but extremely strong
    The new design is metal
   As far as we know, it’s the largest single piece titanium casting in the world. Major improvement over the old aluminum grid fins, as the titanium doesn’t need heat shielding or even paint.
Boring Company product launch on Dec 18. More than a tunnel opening. Will include modded but fully road legal autonomous transport cars &amp; ground to tunnel car elevators.
Tracking shot of Falcon water landing  
Engines stabilized rocket spin just in time, enabling an intact landing in water! Ships en route to rescue Falcon.  
 Pump is single string. Some landing systems are not redundant, as landing is considered ground safety critical, but not mission critical. Given this event, we will likely add a backup pump &amp; lines.
 We may use it for an internal SpaceX mission
 Yes, cutaway was a mistake. We will show all footage, good or bad.
Grid fin hydraulic pump stalled, so Falcon landed just out to sea. Appears to be undamaged &amp; is transmitting data. Recovery ship dispatched.
Falcon/Dragon launch to _Station in 9 minutes
 Us too sigh
Falcon fairing halves missed the net, but touched down softly in the water. Mr Steven is picking them up. Plan is to dry them out &amp; launch again. Nothing wrong with a little swim.
64 satellites 🛰 on this flight!
   We’re adding police car, fire truck &amp; ambulance to the Tesla neural net in coming months
 Exactly. Default Autopilot behavior, if there’s no driver input, is to slow gradually to a stop &amp; turn on hazard lights. Tesla service then contacts the owner. Looking into what happened here.
 It is so hard to move in armor!
 You’re all hired!
 Yes … no … maybe …
None shall pass!
  _maas Ok
 _maas Good advice
   Applying a hydrophobic coating to the radar (located just below nose of car) should help. Easy to do yourself or Tesla service can do it. We’re also working on vision-only driving.
  Glad you’re ok
_maas Perhaps most telling is that Norway, which is partly above the Arctic Circle, has more Teslas per capita than any other country on Earth.
_maas As the battery warms up, almost all of that is recovered. There is a roughly 10% range loss for cabin heating. Cabin heating impact on range is higher in slow traffic, but range is also higher in slow traffic.
 Incoming rocket &amp; fairing probably visible, but landing itself is over the horizon
  You got it!
_    Three things, one of which is CH4
   No
   No
  Reentry scorchmarks, not simple soot. Can’t wipe it off.
 Haha
  Prof Dahn is correct (he’s great), but the relative benefit is small. I’d recommend 10% more SoC for convenience.
 Not worth going below 80% imo. Even 90% is still fine. Also, no issue going to 5% or lower SoC.
_Marge  True ♥️
♥️♥️♥️♥️🛸🛸🛸🛸♥️♥️♥️♥️  
  @_KarenHao Both
 Your Tesla can function as a boat for brief periods of time  
 One day
  We’re doing an EIR for the greater LA tunnel network. Thought we might need a N-S test tunnel (hence Sepulveda proposal), but we’re just going to do rock core samples along that corridor instead.
 Update soon
 Sorry ☺️
Boring breakthrough   
 Definitely
After safety, our goal is to make a Tesla the most fun you could possibly have in a car
   We tried. Nintendo won’t license it to us.
  That would be cool
 Haha kinda true 😀
 Never heard of it
Super fun software Easter eggs coming to all Tesla S/3/X cars before the holidays! Romance mode, toilet humor &amp; more video games.
_maxime Software upgrade to rain sensing neural net coming next month
 Yes
 This is completely backwards. Based on what we’ve learned from the Hawthorne test tunnel, we’re moving forward with a much larger tunnel network under LA. Won’t need a second test tunnel under Sepulveda.
Cool! Actually, if you buy a Tesla without a test drive, you have 3 days to return it. If you buy after a test drive, you still have 24 hours. Trying to incent buying with no test drive.
 Tiny wizard 🧙‍♂️
  7 to 10 years
 Engineers, artists &amp; creators of all kinds. There is so much to build.
 Touché
But if you love what you do, it (mostly) doesn’t feel like work
 Varies per person, but about 80 sustained, peaking above 100 at times. Pain level increases exponentially above 80.
There are way easier places to work, but nobody ever changed the world on 40 hours a week
Join to create exciting new worlds of technology!! If getting things done matters to you, then , ,  &amp;  are the places to be.
  Congratulations! What an amazing track record of success with Mars!
 😉😉
 1000 liters of pure water costs $1
For those worried about running out of fresh water, it may help to know that desalination only costs 0.1 cents per liter or half a cent per gallon
 Ah yes fair point
Used to live in Silicon Valley, now I live in Silicone Valley
 Not yet
🖤 trouble
Earth is
 Earth’s crust is only ~1% of Earth mass, so technically we should be called Lava  
 Earth should be called Water. Our surface is 71% water. Mars land area is roughly equal to Earth, as it’s all land. Even when warmed up &amp; water ice turns liquid, Mars will be about 2/3 land.
  Yeah, good idea to offer that as a setting
 Contour remains approx same, but fundamental materials change to airframe, tanks &amp; heatshield
If you don’t want a Tesla, here’s a list of all electric cars in North America   via 
Signing off for a while
Happy Thanksgiving!!
🚀 Starships were meant to fly 🚀  
 Starship Tooters
   Good one
   Good idea
  Coming soon
  Shifting resources from sales to service for next several days
 Should be next week
 No, it’s the first or boost stage, analogous to, but much larger than Falcon 9
 Later versions will
Technically, two parts: Starship is the spaceship/upper stage &amp; Super Heavy is the rocket booster needed to escape Earth’s deep gravity well (not needed for other planets or moons)
Renaming BFR to Starship
_sci No, we’re just going to accelerate BFR
 Yes
Supercharger V3, which starts rolling out early next year, will also charge much faster
Tesla Supercharger capacity will double by end of next year. Expect to be within range of 95% to 100% of population in all active markets.
  No, it’s got enough load capacity &amp; volume to carry the battery pack &amp; our current pack energy density is about double that of original Roadster. Still, it would probably only save about 30% to 40% of effort, all things considered.
   In order of resource priority, but not necessarily production ramp, as that depends on thousands of parts &amp; processes, which are extremely difficult to forecast
   What really matters is time to volume production, not initial market intro. Apart from brief moments, Tesla vehicle production is limited by total battery output.
  Lot on our plate, so it’s either get van gliders (no battery, powertrain or compute tech) from Daimler &amp; produce sooner or do all &amp; produce later. Not a big difference to total vehicles produced either way. Priority list is Model Y, solar roof tiles, pickup, semi, Roadster.
  Ok
 Maybe interesting to work with Daimler/Mercedes on an electric Sprinter. That’s a great van. We will inquire.
 Absolutely agree
 Investigating
  Probably mid 2019
_LIFER Tesla can provide heating/cooling/lights/music for days using battery
 Not everywhere, but should be possible around major metros. Parts supply chain to UK should be fixed. Lmk if not.
_lex _amy  Should be possible. Please ask service &amp; lmk response.
 No, but perhaps in a few years
_amy Yeah, good idea. We have that state internally, so can push data to phone app.
 Haha, just like Super Troopers
 Ideal situation in breakdown/accident (assuming no injuries) is that Tesla arrives at scene fast with top-of-the-line service loaner
Will allow having your car picked up &amp; dropped off or using mobile Tesla Rangers service vans if car lift isn’t needed
Adding functionality to Tesla phone app allowing owners to request service for top issues with 1 or 2 taps
 Yes, no upgrades planned for F9. Minor tweaks to improve reliability only, provided NASA &amp; USAF are supportive.
 Radical change
Btw, SpaceX is no longer planning to upgrade Falcon 9 second stage for reusability. Accelerating BFR instead. New design is very exciting! Delightfully counter-intuitive.
 It will alert Tesla service automatically as fan power required to achieve target pressure drop exceeds spec level
Set air flow to recirculating mode &amp; manually raise blower speed to 5 in Model 3 for best air quality. Air filters are smaller than S/X, so clear air is achieved by circulating through filter several times.
Congratulations  on completing the LA/Hawthorne tunnel! Cutting edge technology!  

Boring Company just broke through the other side!!   
  Missed miku concert sigh
Listening to Better Now  
  China, especially, is doing an amazing job moving towards sustainable energy generation &amp; transport
Sure hope this isn’t true. It is the non-linearities, such as Siberian permafrost melting or ocean currents changing, that are most difficult to predict.
@_TomCross_  Haha 😀
Looking back at the sun from upper stage &amp; Falcon 9 🚀 landed on drone ship Of Course I Still Love You  
$5 per min to argue with knight. $12 for 3 min bulk discount.
 While (!castle) {brick++};
 Watchtower (feat. knight) will be at LA/Hawthorne tunnel entrance
Fortnite irl
Boring Co is launching a whole product line of DIY watchtowers. You get bricks &amp; a picture.
Um, that is not our castle. I just found a picture on the Internet.
Not much but it is ours  
The Boring Company is building a watchtower in LA out of dirt bricks &amp; we need a knight to yell insults at people in a French accent  
_16 We have to truck to departure rail head &amp; truck from arrival rail head, which is usually from customers. Car gets moved around rail yard a lot too &amp; trains don’t leave often.
 Probably some deliveries in March, but April is more certain
_raul Yes
Will also be using dedicated roll-on, roll-off fast ships for transporting cars to Europe &amp; Asia in Q1. Major focus on minimizing time from factory to new owner. Did not fully appreciate the working capital impact until recently.
 We bought some trucking companies &amp; secured contracts with major haulers to avoid trucking shortage mistake of last quarter
 Probably technically able to do so in about a year. Then up to regulators.
Skipping rail saves over a month for East Coast deliveries. All things considered, it’s better to use trucks. Single load/unload &amp; direct to owner location.
Tesla just acquired trucking capacity to ensure Model 3 can be delivered in US by Dec 31 if ordered by Nov 30  
 We will fight Big Tequila!
  That would be awesome
_iost  Easily accessible energy
 Send me a note!
 Would be fun to add to Tesla
    Yes
   Will try again next month
Congratulations  team! Thanks , much appreciated.
Rest in peace, Stan Lee. The many worlds of imagination &amp; delight you created for humanity will last forever.
@_sheateher  Is he ok?
It naturally follows that a hotter system will have more energetic events. For example, as a pot of water becomes colder, it becomes inert ice, but heating a pot of water turns it into a steam boiler.
 Scary sign of times to come. It will get worse.
 Agreed, technically, mined hydrocarbons come primarily from ancient, decayed marine organisms &amp; partially from geological processes (CH4 particularly)
Makes me so mad when smart, ethical scientists I know are accused of publishing climate papers for “grant money”. They earn 🥜 vs their other opportunities, but give that up to help world. But their accusers make billions by slowing down clean energy. Which is more credible?
 That is true &amp; should be applauded. Right move is for oil companies truly to think of themselves as energy companies, but move rapidly towards clean, sustainable energy. Means lower profits short-term, but will make them stronger long-term.
We know we’ll run out of dead dinosaurs to mine for fuel &amp; have to use sustainable energy eventually, so why not go renewable now &amp; avoid increasing risk of climate catastrophe? Betting that science is wrong &amp; oil companies are right is the dumbest experiment in history by far …
 Because people on the ground know more about what’s actually needed than politicians do
 Good, but not hospital grade. S &amp; X were designed to be proof against an actual bioweapon attack. Requires a giant filter with separate acid &amp; alkaline gas neutralization layers. Not enough room in Model 3.
If Tesla can help people in California wildfire, please let us know. Model S &amp; X have hospital grade HEPA filters. Maybe helpful for transporting people.
  Fair point, will reenable
 Agreed, top priority for Autopilot team. Being cautious for max safety.
Please lmk what you’d most like improved/fixed about your Tesla. Thanks!
    Cool
 With similar track wheels/tires/brakes, Model S P100D is faster
  Yes
 Would like to thank Robyn for joining the team. Great respect. Very much look forward to working together.
  No, we’re building a BFR dev ship to do supersonic through landing tests in Boca Chica, Texas
  Won’t land propulsively for those reasons. Ultra light heat shield &amp; high Mach control surfaces are what we can’t test well without orbital entry. I think we have a handle on propulsive landings.
 Aiming for orbital flight by June
Mod to SpaceX tech tree build: Falcon 9 second stage will be upgraded to be like a mini-BFR Ship
But comments are 👌
  LA/Hawthorne demonstration tunnel activates Dec 10. Runs parallel to 105 freeway from Crenshaw Blvd to 405.
I think Twitter is deleting fake, scam or maybe even inactive accounts. My follower count decreased by ~20k over the past few days.

  Sure, we can do it
Zeroth Law
Foundation of psychohistory
 I am not
_the_cheesy True
2B or !2B
Love Oumuamua jokes
Remember the future
Oh hi guys … lol  
     Yes, Germany has outstanding engineering talent
 Just a few mins, which is mostly accelerating &amp; decelerating

So underappreciated
  Ok
 Ok
Walked full length of Boring Co tunnel under LA tonight. Disturbingly long. On track for opening party Dec 10. Will be very one-dimensional.
 Sounds like pure luxury! When I said ‘sponge’, I was actually speaking metaphorically. Truth is, I was just a simple nucleotide, drifting alone in small crevice with 3 trillion siblings.
@_DionnaLeo  What is love?
  Bikini Bottom
 Fair
 Yes, that is how
We didn’t even have kids back then. Just little sponges.
 Sea sponge. Humans would later use our bodies to clean dishes. So humiliating.
 Wow that’s cool!
Kids these days have it easy
I remember when I was a sponge. Simpler times they were.
  Haha
First movie I ever saw in theaters
When the only existing life was a sponge
Although it was in the precambrian era
Star Wars only had an $11M budget. Must have been in the galaxy of ridiculously low budgets.  
  They’re great! Honored to work with them.
 Yes
    Definitely
    Aspirationally, they will be made to the exact same specification, but we can vary cell quantity to account for empirical variation
    Hopefully, partial presence in India, Africa &amp; South America end of next year, with broader expansion in 2020
    Recently asked service team to expand locations to all population regions (not just major metros) in North America, Eastern Europe, China &amp; Japan by end of next year. We are completely missing vast geographic regions in some cases.
   To clarify further, the long-term goal for Tesla mass market products is local production for local markets (at least at the continent level). This is critical to make pricing as affordable as possible.
   Tesla will manufacture all battery modules &amp; packs at China Giga, as we do today in California &amp; Nevada. Cell production will be sourced locally, most likely from several companies (incl Pana), in order to meet demand in a timely manner.
 Amazing results by  at Tesla Gigafactory Nevada! Very much appreciate extreme hard work it took to achieve this result. Together with Pana Japan cell plants, Tesla/Pana partnership is producing ~60% of global EV battery output!
   _Ryan Prob 2 to 3 weeks
_  v true
 cute
 Haha
Bring Me the Horizon  
 Aiming for next week
 ♥️ Norway 🇳🇴
  #’s r wrong, but 🐻 in 🧠 Tesla makes 🚘s 4 overseas &amp; East Coast in 1st half of quarter
 Long-term, the car will work purely on vision, with radar just a plus, but maybe worth adding a radar heater anyway
  
 We can make it work from very far away. LoS is just for safety.
 Hahaha &lt;ahem&gt;
 Um yes
 Maybe AI will make me follow it, laugh like a demon &amp; say who’s the pet now …
Also, you’ll be able to drive it from your phone remotely like a big RC car if in line of sight
Car will drive to your phone location &amp; follow you like a pet if you hold down summon button on Tesla app
Tesla advanced Summon ready in ~6 weeks! Just an over-the-air software upgrade, so will work on all cars made in past 2 years (Autopilot hardware V2+).
Scientists uncover Sneaky move by GM
  For those unfamiliar, this uses Tesla Autopark/Summon. Slightly smarter version hopefully ready soon. By next year, a Tesla should be able to drive around a parking lot, find an empty spot, read signs to confirm it’s valid &amp; park.
  Cool haha
Legally required officers of a corporation are president, treasurer &amp; secretary. Guess I have to keep 1st one or it will confuse the authorities.
 Good point, might put that one back
Deleted my Tesla titles last week to see what would happen. I’m now the Nothing of Tesla. Seems fine so far.
  Signing off Twitter for a few days ...
  Don’t worry, we’ll make it right
  The FOIA on this will be solid gold. Can’t wait.
 Not going up. We will just offer those who ordered bought 3P either $5k back or free lifetime Supercharging.
  It’s a reasonable criticism. We wanted to make the awesome version of Model 3 Performance more affordable, but it was arguably too much too soon. Taking corrective action …
  Exactly, this is total bs. What part of “production hell” sounds like a sure thing!?
     We will enable track mode for all performance cars
 It was underpriced. Anyway, if you want $5k refund &amp; free Supercharging turned off, we will do that.
    Ok, we will turn off lifetime free Supercharging and give you $5k refund
  Yeah, or free lifetime Supercharging, whichever you prefer
 Didn’t you get free Supercharging for life? Current buyers don’t get that.
  _knowles   Exactly. That’s Monday.
 Yes. Will require tapping indicator to confirm at first. When safety looks good after 10M miles of driving or so, there will be an option to turn off confirm.
_knowles   No, but I will
 Isn’t it obvious?
  Worth it
        True
Tesla Autopilot Drive on Navigation going to wide release in North America tonight
   Not exactly. We just bundled the upgrade package into Performance. No problem if you want to return the car, but I think lifetime free Supercharging is a good deal.
  Haha
 On Insta, 10% of followers like even lame posts. On Twitter, good posts get 1%.
@_Akhaten      Lacks scale
     Reddit is massive, but def has gems
   Reddit’s twitter account is lame, because it’s not real Reddit
 Exactly
  You’re right. Earlier Model 3 Performance buyers got free lifetime Supercharging. Will add that to anyone who bought recently.
On Twitter, likes are rare &amp; criticism is brutal. So hardcore. It’s great.
Glad you’re ok    
  S is better, but rear seat folds down in Model 3, so bikes can fit in trunk
   Hey that’s my Halloween costume!
    Good question
  Clearly, you’re not reading my twitter
  _Enforcement I wish
  Taking action. Tesla body shops now operating in California aiming for same day body repair in most cases.
  Yes Zorbix
 _Enforcement Sir, I would never …
 Yes, I am a little girl. Ok, not that little. Or a girl.
Making progress …
I said dankest not darkest omg
 im actually cat girl here’s selfie rn  
 It’s pretty hot
Deep down, I think Frost secretly preferred the latter
 Ok
Fire and Ice  
Flies like an arrow, but fruit flies like a banana
 Love the Concorde
 Bound to happen
_ Yes
Time
 Love Tesla supporters so much!!♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️ ♥️       ♥️♥️♥️        ♥️                 ♥️♥️                   ♥️                   ♥️                   ♥️                   ♥️
 Midnight
My twitter feed rn  
_ Then the hell with science!
Not moths tho
Send me ur dankest memes!!
🐻 in 🧠
Fresh puro from my meme dealer  
  Exactly. There are many states where we are not allowed to sell cars at all or are severely restricted to literally one store.
 Model 3 was top-selling car in US by revenue despite no advertising, no paid endorsements &amp; no discounts. Competitors spent billions on marketing. Model 3 was product alone.
Massive thanks to Tesla owners &amp; supporters. We wouldn’t be here without you.
  Same
 2025
How’d they know!?  
 Around mid 2019
  There have been hundreds of improvements to fit &amp; finish over the years, but no major step change in this regard. Seats, especially, are dramatically better now than in the past.
 Only thing almost anyone would notice is the nose
 Just did that to correct the front design esthetic of Model S. The nose of an electric car shouldn’t look like a radiator grill opening.
Get this question a lot, so need to clarify that there’s no such thing as a Tesla “refresh”. Other car companies do this every ~3 years, but Tesla constantly upgrades vehicle hardware every week.
To simplify production, many Tesla Model S &amp; X interior configs, will no longer be available after Nov 1. Order now to be sure of the one you want.
 Model 3 body design could def be less complex, but, yes, most of weight difference is due to higher safety vs other cars
 Working on it
 That is correct
Twitter thought I got hacked &amp; locked my account haha
  Wanna buy some Bitcoin? 😉😉  
And I own a chibi Wolverine
  
i🖤anime
Order Tesla without test drive &amp; you get 3 days to return for refund, else 1 day
 Former
 Will be in next point release
 Hopefully, a few months for Drive on Navigation capability. We need to address differences in how lane lines are painted. Varies greatly by country.
  Good point …
         Interesting
  This is a ~ 6000 ft demo tunnel. First operational, high-speed tunnel still set for Chicago, pending regulatory approvals.
  Under LA (Hawthorne)
  155 mph | 250 km/h
 Opening event that night &amp; free rides for the public next day
 Pretty close, actually
 I think real
Opens Dec 10
The first tunnel is almost done
 N00B!
Twitter is Dark Souls of social media. Reddit is Bloodborne. Insta is Zelda.
 Good idea!
   This game is my personal favorite, but I am biased towards space stuff
 Coming soon
 Turn on enhanced security via the settings page. This will require entering a passcode to use the car.
  ♥️
 Digital Style!  
  Would I really let someone get away with using my name all this time?
 BoredElonMusk is my secret troll account. It’s time people knew.
 No, bored me, I will not
  Maybe phone as controller
_horn  Exactly
  Coming
 Yes
 Reality is hard
_Myth Online doesn’t count
_Holtgod Coming soon
 No
 That’s next
Had to been done ur welcome  
 I hope this is true!
 If you don’t like a Tesla for any reason or no reason, you can just give it back for a full refund
 Also available off menu for a week. Was causing too much confusion.
Model 3 long range, rear wheel drive is still available for ordering off menu for another week or so
 It’s kind of like the post office. Same price for delivery to Maine as the SF Bay Area. But you do get a free Tesla factory tour, which is really fun to see.
Tesla rear wheel drive cars do actually work well on snow &amp; ice. We did our traction testing on an ice lake! Dual motor AWD is great, but not required for cold weather. Just don’t use sport/summer tires.
 It’s a long range battery with fewer cells. Non-cell portion of the pack is disproportionately high, but we can get it done now instead of ~February
Just released lower cost, mid-range Tesla Model 3 &amp; super simple new order page  
 Week or two
Love the Reddit comments too
Dog saves her puppies  
 y
You’ll see
Tomorrow brings a lemur  
Special Circumstances  
_brorsson  Yes 😀
  New Summon will use the Autopilot cameras
 Yes, aiming for next few months
 True, but this will improve dramatically over next several months &amp; all Tesla cars ever produced (except early Roadsters) will get improvements for free. Continuous, free over-the-air software updates is a big part of why a Tesla retains so much value over time.
Same goes for all countries within which we officially operate by end of next year
Just reviewed Tesla’s service locations in North America &amp; realized we have major gaps in geographic coverage! Sorry for this foolish oversight. Tesla will aim to cover all regions of NA (not just big cities) within 3 to 6 months.
Insightful article by David 
_AA_Carmack Thanks John, really admire you too! I think you’re one of the best engineers ever. Hope you return to working on rockets one day.
  _brorsson   The FSD upgrade is the Tesla computer with our NN chip
 _brorsson   I believe it’s $5k
 _brorsson   ~6 months before it is in all new production cars. No change to sensors. This is simple replacement of the Autopilot computer. Will be done free of charge for those who ordered full self-driving.
_brorsson   Somewhere between 500% &amp; 2000%
  To be clear, actual NN improvement is significantly overestimated in this article. V9.0 vs V8.1 is more like a ~400% increase in useful ops/sec due to enabling integrated GPU &amp; better use of discrete GPU.
  This is without the Tesla NN computer. Per my public comments, that will give the car an extra order of magnitude.
  Still a long way to go
Model 3 motor &amp; gearbox still in good condition after driving 1M miles. Designed for ultra high endurance.
Works best if you play games full screen &amp; use steering wheel scroller balls for control
  Haha. It is actually my fav game on Tesla cars right now 😀
🖤🖤🖤🖤  🚘🚘🚘🚘  🖤🖤🖤🖤
  What are some of the most fun games we could have on a Tesla? Classic Atari is just the start.
 Yes
 Thanks for recognizing the great work of the Tesla team! 45,000 people now.
It is time to create a mecha
 NERV
 &lt;ahem&gt; Elon-chan
 Great. Also love Princess Mononoke.
Love Your Name  
    Maybe this could be part of a (safe) car version of Pokémon Go style game
   Towelie 💗
   Good idea!
  Whole beer keg fits in Model 3 trunk!
 Wow, mechanical logic gates
  Comes with free towels. Nothing more useful in the entire Universe.
 Maybe wise to bring it just in case 👽👾 😉
 About half my money is intended to help problems on Earth &amp; half to help establish a self-sustaining city on Mars to ensure continuation of life (of all species) in case Earth gets hit by a meteor like the dinosaurs or WW3 happens &amp; we destroy ourselves
 You should ask why I would want money. The reason is not what you think. Very little time for recreation. Don’t have vacation homes or yachts or anything like that.
 Yes
Tesla exists to help reduce risk of catastrophic climate change, which affects all species on Earth. Even if your faith in humanity is faltering, this is worth caring about. Support makes a difference. Thank you.
Visual approximation  
Teslaquila coming soon …
 _Station _Johnson  Glad you’re safe
  Beautiful picture
   Yes, it’s hard to find. Not sure why.
   Exactly. A Tesla is objectively much safer in a crash than all other cars, according to NHTSA’s *own* calculations. This is just physics!
 This is incorrect
At Falcon LZ-1 Vandenberg on Sunday night with the Base Commander. Support of  much appreciated.  
Studebaker Museum in South Bend  
  Punctuality is not my strong suit
  We’d be nothing without our fans
 Because 11 is obviously louder than 10 😀
 No such thing as a “full refresh” at Tesla or even a model year. Our cars are partially upgraded every month as soon as a new subsystem is ready for production. There is no cadence.
 It sure does. Very reliable.
 You are right
A reminder of why it’s important to accelerate advent of cars powered by electricity made from solar power
 You’re most welcome, glad I could be helpful! Thanks for letting me know about it.
 Warms my ❤️ 😀
The physics of how Tesla achieved best safety of any cars ever tested. Note, when vehicle weight is taken into account, order is more like X,S, then 3, but they are all very close.

(Credit @_TomCross_)  
Falcon has landed  
Tesla owner shows how well ultrawhite seats hold up after 25,000 miles. The black &amp; white interior is def best imo.  
 What city &amp; what Model 3 config?
 My fav character
Sonic boom warning. This won’t be subtle.  
    Two — one for 👽 👾 millions of years from now and one for you
   Yes
   Yes, but 🐻 in 🧠 that we’re creating a generalized autonomy solution. Must work in millions of strange 🚘 situations.
Blade Runner — Esper Edition — Vangelis  
  Actually, it’s 1 of 3 forward cameras in rear view mirror assembly. External cameras will auto-activate in future if car is damaged while parked.
  Fair point 😀
 When something sounds too good to be true, it usually is. Way the trick works is companies like Blackrock keep up to 50% of short interest revenue, but suffer almost none of equity decline, as they’re just “passive” managers. Blackrock made $597M in short lending last year!
 Not all. However, shorting applied to market as a whole is obv net negative — it incents negative gdp! Moreover, it stops private companies from going public, preventing access by retirement funds &amp; small investors, thus increasing wealth divide.  
 V9 moving to wide release now. Holding back Autopilot drive on navigation for a few more weeks of validation. Extremely difficult to achieve a general solution for self-driving that works well everywhere.
 Only if they’re extremely tiny
 We don’t judge. Any pic you want!
Tesla owners can refer someone to buy a Tesla &amp; get any image they want laser etched in glass &amp; sent to deep space for millions of years
 Rococo Basilisk is
First Falcon 9 land landing mission from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California coming up soon!
  _nafnlaus  The CIO of a major pension fund is the one who deserves credit for uncovering this scam
  _nafnlaus  The big funds can &amp; will, as they’re suffering a net loss. Index managers like Blackrock pocket make excessive profit from short lending while pretending to charge low rates for “passive” index tracking.
  _nafnlaus  Debatably true, if applied to individual stocks selectively &amp; consciously, but obv false if applied broadly to most of the market &amp; without clear consent of the shareholder
 _nafnlaus  Where this breaks down is in passive index funds, which constitute most of the market. The holders of those funds, mostly small investors &amp; retirement funds, don’t realize that their stocks are being lent to short sellers, diminishing their true equity return.
 _nafnlaus  There is no rational basis for a long holder to lend their stock to shorts, as it dilutes the shareholder base &amp; gives the short a strong incentive to attack the company by whatever means possible, including regulators
 I hope to be less wrong over time
  You’re most welcome. Hope to do more to help in the future.
What they do should be illegal
The last several years have taught me that they are indeed reasonably maligned
    _Enforcement Exactly. Short-sellers are value destroyers. Should definitely be illegal.
By revenue, taking publicly available selling prices, Model 3 actually outsold Camry by a factor of two  
          This is amazing  
 Almost ready. We expanded the early access program to 1000 more users a few days ago.
People sometimes forget that a company is just a group of people gathered together to make products. So long as it makes great products, it will have great value.
  If you think Tesla is overvalued compared to probable value of future cash flows, sell. Otherwise, buy.
 Hang in there. If you are truly long-term, it will be fine.
  True
  Sorry about the typo. That was unforgivable. Why would they be upset about their mission? It’s what they do.
Just want to that the Shortseller Enrichment Commission is doing incredible work. And the name change is so on point!
Great verdict 😀
  Could be worse 😇
  Tesla Autopilot team is awesome! Got to make sure we iron out the details though. Long tail of tricky edge cases. Important to get front wide angle, B pillar &amp; side repeater camera neural nets just right.
 Something especially weird going on with Yahoo news feed on iPhone stocks app. Almost always super negative. Maybe getting gamed.
Naughty by Nature 😉  
    Will do. Definitely moving heavily towards direct to work/home delivery of cars!
   Tesla will deliver your car to you. This is the future. The way it should work.
That was intense
 i❤️🇨🇦
 !! Will take action.
And remember …  
Huge thank you to all Tesla supporters for helping with car deliveries all around the world. You rock!!
Sorry for difficulties delivering your Tesla due to high volume! Critical to show that environmentally sustainable is financially sustainable.
  Pace of innovation is all that matters in the long run
   You’re welcome. Sorry for the delay!
_KO    What would be great is original Elite
 Going over final tweaks tonight. Hopefully in wide release end of week.
♥️ Tesla Owners ♥️
 Increased tire pressure improves range. Also, if you have performance tires, they are stickier. Better handling, but slightly lower range.
  😀
 Apologies, we’re upgrading our logistics system, but running into an extreme shortage of car carrier trailers. Started building our own car carriers this weekend to alleviate load.
 Tricky one
_Ryan Wow, thanks for offering to help! The coming week is incredibly intense. If any current Tesla owners who’d like to help educate new owners could head to Tesla delivery centers during midday on Sat/Sun &amp; morning/evening on weekdays, that would be super appreciated!
 Probably 2028 for a base to be built
Mars Base Alpha  

 Consider an ice skater. Same weight, but spins/turns much faster with arms in vs arms out. Same principle is true for a car.
 Front vs rear wheel weight distribution, though commonly asked, isn't the right question. You can have 50% on front, 50% on rear &amp; still have poor handling if mass elements are far from center. Dumbbell mass distribution is bad, spinning top/dreidel is good.
 Simple explanation of polar moment of inertia &amp; other important car terms at  
 Key technical point is that the polar moment of inertia (concentration of mass around center) of a Tesla, to the extent of our knowledge, is better than any other production car. This positively affects safety, handling &amp; driving feel. Extremely important metric.
  A car propelled by combustion is far more likely to combust than an electric car
 Yes, when it comes to physics, make sure Newton is on your side
 Helps improve forward crumple zone length, especially important in high speed frontal impacts, and moments of inertia in side impacts
Tesla piece on the physics of car safety coming soon for those interested in technical details
   Exactly, all 5 star are *not* the same, as the videos show. “5 star” just means a car met a certain threshold, but injury probability stats (real numbers) tell you by how much.
  Haha true
. will post final safety probability stats soon. Model 3 has a shot at being safest car ever tested.
 👽💘
   Wow, glad they’re ok!
   Physics can be thought of as the compression algorithms of reality
♥️ 
  Tesla Rangers!
 31 engines, but with room to add 11 more down the road. Kinda have to.
  Yes, if there is no listener, a simulation probably wouldn’t spend computing power on sound
  Yes
True 😀  
 To conserve computing power, a simulation would only render an object when it is observed
  You’re most welcome! Sorry for the delay.
 Will do. Love Reddit.
  Space Bar
  Long-term, there will be thousands and eventually, hopefully, millions of missions &amp; anyone will be able to go
 Yeah, Starlink should be active by then
   Sorry! So many bots!!
Moon mission will be livestreamed in high def VR, so it’ll feel like you’re there in real-time minus a few seconds for speed of light
 Perhaps one of the invited artists choosing to play. There will be no obligation to do so.
 Very close

 😀
  Always
     Yes
  That’s the first BFR airframe/tank barrel section made of a new carbon fiber material
 Yeah … that’s exactly how I feel. However it happens, I just hope it does.
 Thanks for helping fund a rocket &amp; spaceship that could take humanity beyond Earth!
Hanging out with  before the  moon mission announcement  
Yusaku will be bringing 8 (brave) artists &amp; cultural figures with him on the journey around the moon!
   Probably V10 alpha build
_Ryan   Yes, albeit a beta version. Will improve with V9.1.
  Good news on this front. Tesla engineering rallied &amp; this will be part of V9. Going through final testing now.
Thank you for your trust in the  team. Greatly appreciated.
 Will be interesting to see how this evolves over time
 Will see what we can do. Really need to bring this program to an end while being as fair as possible. It’s not sustainable long-term.
 Very interesting
Due to some Tesla owners encountering system issues yesterday, the free Supercharging referral program will be extended until tomorrow night
 This is definitely worth thoughtful debate. What might we do differently to improve human/life happiness?
   Yes, I do
Top SpaceX priority is and will remain supporting  crewed spaceflight and National Security missions
Btw, can’t emphasize enough how  would not be where it is today without . Thank you.
 With lasers
 My fav tweet ever
 if you can help get rid of the annoying scam spammers, that would be much appreciated
 Ok
 Maybe the scammers will just get tired of winning eventually
 Good catch. They are there in the flight design, but we forgot to put them in this render.

 Forward moving wing


 😉
  Sorry, we’ve gone from production hell to delivery logistics hell, but this problem is far more tractable. We’re making rapid progress. Should be solved shortly.
  Awesome 😎
 Design has been changed so the 🚀 lands on legs that extend from the tips of the three fins, two of which actuate (mostly for pitch control)
 Sorry, it’s not really sustainable at volume production &amp; doesn’t incent optimal behavior. We probably should have ended this earlier.
 Yes
_scottv Yeah, that’s our problem. Service &amp; parts supply in general will be the top Tesla priority after we get through the insane car delivery logistics of the next few weeks.
 Outside repair shops are jack of all trades, which means supporting 1000’s of makes &amp; models. Tesla collision repair specializes in three. Having all parts in stock &amp; not waiting for insurance approval also make a world of difference.
Goal is for repaired car to be better than before accident. Should always be true if damaged/used parts are correctly replaced with newer parts.
Exciting to see some Tesla collision repair operations already completing within 24 hrs. Aiming for same day soon, then under an hour.
Tesla is bringing most collision repairs in-house, as outside firms take weeks to months for repairs, driving Tesla owners (and us) crazy
 True
Tesla owners can grant free Supercharging for life to a friend who buys S/3/X. Ends tomorrow night.  
  Hi Dustin!
   The Tesla board has done incredible work overseeing the largest value creation in the auto industry in 100+ years, despite many setbacks. Tesla owes its very existence to this board!
 The muskrat is like a beaver with small ideas, but it has a certain quiet dignity …
 Wut?  
 Haha 😀
  Intentionally so
Electric cars made with sunlight
  🇯🇵
  Yes
Bricks will be free if used for affordable housing projects
 Yes
First Boring Brick store opening in ~2 months. Only 10 cents a brick! Rated for California seismic loads.
__  About to finish first TBC HQ building made with Boring Bricks in the shape of a medieval watchtower
. will transport your car all the way into your garage
   Thoughtful feedback
Due to a large increase in vehicle delivery volume in North America, Tesla customers may experience longer response times. Resolving this is our top priority.
  My apologies, am working on this exact issue right now
  Best show in the multiverse!
 No, service will stock all colors
_Ryan  Love that red. We tried every possible way to make red look 3D without floating a special red tint in primary gloss layer, but no way. We have to stop whole paint shop for red &amp; it looks like an episode of Dexter.
Moving 2 of 7 Tesla colors off menu on Wednesday to simplify manufacturing. Obsidian Black &amp; Metallic Silver will still be available as special request, but at higher price.
 Looks cool
Not easy coming up with a good cover story for an underground volcano lair, but I think it’s working
Test-driving our new boring machine with a 🎮
_Bill  2170 is about the right cell size, but I don’t recommend copying our current module design. Far too difficult to manufacture.
 Like sands through the hourglass …
 10 types of people in the world: those who understand binary &amp; those who don’t 🦊🐶
   Will do soon, as promised
     Not me, I’m gonna die right here in the USA. Or Mars. Just not on impact.
I am a business magnet
Good times with  …  
_gold_ Will add a fade mode with only essential info
Tesla 1st, 2nd &amp; 3rd in August sales
Will be on  at 9:30pm Pacific on Thursday
_gold_ Am running it in my car, but it’s not right yet. Hopefully, will release to advanced early access users in a week or two, then more broadly towards end of month.
  Much appreciated! Great word-of-mouth is why Model 3 is the best-selling electric car, despite no advertising or paid endorsements.
  The multi-coat colors (pearl white &amp; red) are hardest, red especially, as it has red tint in the clear coat layer itself for depth &amp; complexity
 Sorry, we’ve put pretty extreme rules in place for paint &amp; quality in general. If need be, we’re repainting/replacing entire sections of car or building whole new cars. Got to be done.
 Can Steve Bannon please insult me some more? Best PR I’ve had in a while.
  !
 I was told that his parents preferred that his name not be mentioned
 V cool
   So you actually did nothing &amp; yet imply you are a truth-seeker. The Twitter name you chose is .
   Answer the question . You brought it up, not me. Did you investigate or not? If so, what did you actually do?
    At this point, I want ETH even if it is a scam
   Did you investigate at all? I’m guessing answer is no. Why?
   It’s coming, I swear
   You don’t think it’s strange he hasn’t sued me? He was offered free legal services. And you call yourself  …
  Great actions by Twitter to delete bogus accounts. Will increase usage by real users.
 For the record, my voice cracked once during the NY Times article. That’s it. There were no tears.
  Sure :)
  I want that outfit
The world lost a great man in John McCain. He was an honorable, kind, brave and fundamentally decent human being. If only there were more such people in the world.
 This is why a small company with tight focus &amp; high energy can beat a big company without
   This is utterly false. Fossil fuel merchants of doubt have been pushing that bs for years. Tesla Gigafactory will be 100% renewable powered (by Tesla Solar) by end of next year.
  Most people don’t realize that the cost of operating an electric vehicle is much lower than a gas car. Electricity is way cheaper than gas plus no oil changes, tune-ups,smog checks &amp; other service costs.
_brorsson    Most major customers have tried it &amp; love it. Now we need to finish production design &amp; build it, while avoiding dumb mistakes made with Model 3 production system. Wish it wasn’t so hard to be less stupid over time …
   Maybe …
 This was key showstopper for me personally. Couldn’t make it happen, even through expert fiduciary SPV, without creating exotic trust structure that would prob not be accepted by regulators. Current rules have good intentions, but make wealth creation harder for small investors.
  The extension cord was 1000 miles long, but still
  What’s cool is that it was driven across the country alone (no escort or any accompanying vehicles), using the existing Tesla Supercharger network and an extension cord
 In talking to our public investors, most were supportive of optimizing for long-term value creation over quarterly earnings. This was also a factor in remaining public.
 It’s almost done
__ Yes 😀🖤🚀, looks brutal otherwise
This is actually real
This time, the vacuum tunnel will be a bit longer &amp; SpaceX will provide some advance funding for student teams with most promising designs. Bonus award for all race pods that exceed half the speed of sound!
 Tesla Car Karaoke hopefully ready in OTA software update version 10. Just played Missile Command, Asteroids &amp; Lunar Lander in V9. Really fun!
 I was just there. Cardboard being prepped for recycling along southern fence line caught fire. Super appreciate fast response by Fremont fire dept! No injuries or damage to factory.
Goal is to service your car wherever you are, quietly &amp; quickly. No need to bring it to a Tesla service center.
 Ok
Love born in the brain is more spirited, doubtless, than true love, but it has only flashes of enthusiasm; it knows itself too well, it criticizes itself incessantly; so far from banishing thought, it is itself reared only upon a structure of thought. 🖤The Red and The Black♥️
 So many saved drafts. So … so many.
 I’m dying to
  Cool, lmk if you have suggestions for improvement after you drive it
 Thank you for the thoughtful letter
  Thanks for buying our car! Would highly recommend performance version. It’s really good &amp; I don’t say that lightly. Nothing will give you greater joy. Full refund, no hard feelings if not.
  Coming soon
 Definitely

 Instagram is so thirsty, yet gives you Death by Water
 Didn’t “like” it
Really makes me wanna buy Rice Krispies
 Excession
Read Eliot’s notes on The Waste Land    
_Landman  Version 10
 Ford &amp; Tesla are the only 2 American car companies to avoid bankruptcy. I just got home from the factory. You think this is an option. It is not.
Super appreciate free concert for Tesla during this intense time! 🖤🖤
Great meeting you!
  Nvidia makes great hardware. High respect for Jensen &amp; company. Our hardware needs were just unique &amp; matched tightly to our software.
Model 3 review by Unbox ...   via 
 Missile Command &amp; Lunar Lander already working in dev build. We changed the control mapping for max fun on a touchscreen.
Defeating traffic is the ultimate boss battle
 _k  Blue too
_k  Hex nostalgia
 49 20 77 61 73 2e 20 53 6f 72 72 79 20 74 6f 20 68 61 76 65 20 6d 69 73 73 65 64 20 79 6f 75 2e
 I’m excited to work with Silver Lake and Goldman Sachs as financial advisors, plus Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz and Munger, Tolles &amp; Olson as legal advisors, on the proposal to take Tesla private
  Open to it at some point. You did an impressive amount of work on this article.
  Mostly accurate, even though I didn’t do an interview (or pose for cover)
_com _en  ETH beam heh heh
 Good idea, we will add this feature!
Model 3 traction testing on pure ice &amp; snow
Great Q&amp;A  last night. Thanks for helping make Tesla &amp; SpaceX more secure! Planning to open-source Tesla vehicle security software for free use by other car makers. Extremely important to a safe self-driving future for all.
 Thanks, great feedback. Will be a fun  project for Tesla design. Love the idea of adding a special item every few months, so whenever you go into a Tesla store, there is something new &amp; delightful to see.
  Production design will be better, especially in details. We are dying to do this, but primary focus must remain on making affordable version of Model 3 &amp; bringing Y to market
 He was amazing
 Not if you had a wide elastic at the top
 Busted
And thigh high socks with pockets for lipliner &amp; cards
 Of course
Unis3x
Paired with thigh-high sockboots
What are your fav short shorts?
S3XY
Short shorts coming soon to Tesla merch
 Put them on &amp; post a selfie
.. hqr sz wut.
     Awesome 🤣
  Love this from P&amp;P: “One has got all the goodness, and the other all the appearance of it.” Reminds me so of my Nana, who was very stern &amp; strict &amp; yet kindest of all. Believe in good.
 Those are the new design made of titanium. Doesn’t need heat shielding or even paint.
   Sorry, meant to say same timeframe as hardware
   Yes
  Probably 4 to 6 months. Those who order full self-driving get the upgrade at no cost. It isn’t needed just for enhanced Autopilot.
Tesla deliveries &amp; AP hardware chart by  at MIT  
Investor support is confirmed. Only reason why this is not certain is that it’s contingent on a shareholder vote.
 Def no forced sales. Hope all shareholders remain. Will be way smoother &amp; less disruptive as a private company. Ends negative propaganda from shorts.
 Yes, but liquidity events would be limited to every 6 months or so (like SpaceX)
 No change
Shareholders could either to sell at 420 or hold shares &amp; go private
 Absolutely. Am super appreciative of Tesla shareholders. Will ensure their prosperity in any scenario.
 My hope is *all* current investors remain with Tesla even if we’re private. Would create special purpose fund enabling anyone to stay with Tesla. Already do this with Fidelity’s SpaceX investment.
 Yes
 I don’t have a controlling vote now &amp; wouldn’t expect any shareholder to have one if we go private. I won’t be selling in either scenario.
Good morning 😀
  420
Am considering taking Tesla private at $420. Funding secured.
  Maybe Thursday
  _DotA Great work by . Need the neural interface soon to enable human/AI symbiosis.
 We’re working on a new Tesla mini-car that can squeeze in an adult
 Yes
 Model S P100D is def still the top end, but Model 3 Performance is higher value for money
 Early access will have bugs (usually minor, but you never know for sure), so would not advise early access unless you’re prepared to have something go wrong
 🖤 Tesla Autopilot Team 🖤
  Everywhere …
  Much more interesting
 Games &amp; other refinements will go to all Tesla S, X &amp; 3 from start of production. Autopilot enhancements apply to all Model 3’s plus S &amp; X made in last few years (needs Autopilot Hardware V2.0 or higher).
Glad you’re enjoying Model 3 &amp; thanks for buying a Tesla! Major enhancements to Autopilot &amp; fun games coming in a month with V9.0.
 Yup
  Def worth it. Model 3 Performance is next-level.
  🖤 Tracey “… before I knew it, I was writing to The Guardian …” 🤣🤣🤣
 Thanks for the tip. His attention to detail is excellent.
  The humans
Love The Handmaiden. Director also made original Korean Oldboy.  
 Very tiny
Performance Model 3 review by   
Dang, turns out even Hitler was shorting Tesla stock …  
Still as true today as it was 6 years ago
Squirrels …
_Ryan Will work with current hardware. OTA update.
  Definitely
  Bioshock is amazing
 Something like that, but more of an adults in cars anime vibe
Please send examples of prior work when applying. Looking for max playability &amp; creativity.
If you’re into video game development, consider applying to Tesla. We want to make super fun games that integrate the center touch screen, phone &amp; car irl.
 😛
  Cool idea!
  Good idea &amp; thanks for Supercharger trophy reminder. Really want to make the car as fun as possible!
   Yup
  Hoping to include last three in this release, with pole position linked to actual car steering wheel (while stationary tbc haha)
  We will try to squeeze it in
  What are your favorites?
 Yes
  Yes
  Yes
Some of best classic  games coming as Easter eggs in Tesla V9.0 release in about 4 weeks. Thanks !
Falcon 9 launches Iridium to orbit from Vandenberg Air Force Base  
 Tragic. Will send Einhorn a box of short shorts to comfort him through this difficult time.
 And most of remaining 0.14% is Jupiter. We are tiny dust on tiny dust.
 Science ♥️🔬💫  
 Oh yeah? I’ll see ur expert &amp; raise you a Chris McKay  🌏🚀👨‍🔬 😀 
 Tesla body shops are ramping up fast. Aiming to go from 30+ days using external body repair shops to same day body repair with prestocked parts at Tesla service centers.
  Will leave any comment on actions in Flint to those in Flint
 Can’t wait to bring Tesla to Brazil. One of my favorite countries!
 We should be really worried about this
 No
 Yeah, Model 3 is designed to fit 6’4”  adults comfortably in both front &amp; rear seats at same time
We’re adding a “party &amp; camper mode” soon to S/3/X, so your car can maintain air flow, temp, selective lights, music &amp; power devices for 48 hours or more while parked. Big batteries rock …
Not having a big gas guzzler engine in front means there’s room for trunks in front &amp; back, plus longer crumple zone for best safety of any midsize car
 Hard drive industry is hardcore. They build &gt;100 million units per year with extreme precision &amp; brutal economics. Great background.
 There’s a massive amount of CO2 on Mars adsorbed into soil that’d be released upon heating. With enough energy via artificial or natural (sun) fusion, you can terraform almost any large, rocky body.
 Yes, minifloats
 Yes
We tried out a new delivery system using an enclosed trailer straight from factory to owner’s home, so super convenient &amp; car arrives in pristine condition without wasting plastic wrap
  Was listening to Jon Hopkins’ Singularity with c, but posted this instead

_Tussi Have wanted to for so long, but that would be irresponsible
  All are important. You will see.
8-bit floating point?
_Computique If any formula instantiates reality, it’s probably that
Think once, Tweet twice [do it]
0
Nothing is both real &amp; imaginary
_M_0_N  Yes
The future is accelerating
 😱
   Probably ships next summer
 Side boosters, yes, but too much load through center core
🖤🚀💫
  This is great.
_hellmuth  Thanks Phil
  Machines that go “ping”
 What’s technology?
Worth another retweet. Hope Dan Neil returns to Twitter. He left due to relentless attacks from short-sellers, who constantly peddle fear, uncertainty &amp; doubt about Tesla. Dan won the Pulitzer &amp; is considered by many to be the best car critic in the world.  
 Explains why there are so many cat videos
  Localized electro-magnetic field generators
   _layer Thanks for taking a chance on  so many years ago! Looking forward to using the new Iridium constellation.
Wagnerian  
  Yes
Mötor Trēnd  
 Great!
 We’ve gone from ~1000 S/X deliveries per week in US last year to ~6000 S/3/X. It’s like hitting a square wave.
 We’re trying to get rid of contracts completely. Should just be “tap here &amp; you get your car”. Then, if you don’t like it for any reason, just return it like any other product.
 Yeah. Never seen it so high ever.
   Wow, that’s really awesome. Thank you! ♥️
 Haha
  Looks good, but so many details need to be right. Journey back from hypersonic becomes extremely difficult as velocity increases. Altitude is easy, velocity is hard.
 Only costs that actually apply to Q3 &amp; beyond will be counted. It would not be correct to apply historical cost savings to current quarter.
Wall Street
  Congratulations to all teams in the student  competition! To make high-speed pods that can operate in vacuum is very difficult. Was great to meet everyone!
  _caldbeck  Exactly. Overheat protection is always on, but you can also tap “maintain” &amp; your car will hold a cool or warm temp for a few hours while parked.
_caldbeck  Yes, Tesla Model S, X &amp; 3 all automatically keep cabin temperature within safe limits even when parked  
 Ok
 _via_GreenBay Makes me very sad indeed, but also the fault is mine by far
 He’s a good guy
_via_GreenBay Always look on the bright side of life …
 It is much better
_2020 Sorry 🤗

🦄💨✌️  
  I love that scene
 I made that up tbh. They did not have phones during the French Revolution. They used Friendster.
 Don’t make me bite my thumb at you
 For sure
 Btw, 1792 is calling &amp; wants its method of execution back. Seriously, what museum do you plan to raid?
  Yeah, great point. Underground power lines would clear up the skyline, be safer to service, have better uptime &amp; save lives of many birds.
No kidding
  Yes, that will probably be its first use
 Phew 😅. Yeah, we had a drain block 3 months ago &amp; people are working hard to make Tesla successful. Am honored to work with them. Are you trolling for fun or is it part of a job? What motivates you?
 I apologized. Do you stand by your guillotine statement or not?
 Figuratively, literally or both?
 That has always been our goal
    This chart only shows globally competed commercial launches, not US government missions. “Other US” refers to Boeing &amp; Lockheed. Their skill at obtaining govt contracts &amp; subsidies vastly exceeds ours.
    Dunno where this bs is coming from. Who knows about the future, but last week we had over 2000 S/X and 5000 Model 3 *new* net orders.
_Ryan Definitely. We gave up some grip &amp; width in exchange for range. Would recommend stickier tires &amp; wider on rear for best performance. You might get 3.3 sec 0-60 mph or better with optimized rims &amp; tires.
    Wow, someone has really thought about this!
I wish
 Nonetheless, his actions against me do not justify my actions against him, and for that I apologize to Mr. Unsworth and to the companies I represent as leader. The fault is mine and mine alone.
 As this well-written article suggests, my words were spoken in anger after Mr. Unsworth said several untruths &amp; suggested I engage in a sexual act with the mini-sub, which had been built as an act of kindness &amp; according to specifications from the dive team leader.
 Good point
   I have never donated to a SuperPAC
 Yes, about 0.5% of what I donated to , which is a reasonable amount to maintain an open dialogue
Reports that I am a top donor to GOP are categorically false. I am not a top donor to any political party.
Thank you for fighting climate change. This affects every living creature on Earth.  
_p That said, I do not actually see the checks (changed that policy today). A nominal annual amount goes out automatically to both parties to maintain dialogue. I have given vastly more to humanitarian causes.
 _p So that they are willing to listen when I call to object about issues that negatively affect humanity
_p Thanks Jack. To be clear, I am not a conservative. Am registered independent &amp; politically moderate. Doesn’t mean I’m moderate about all issues. Humanitarian issues are extremely important to me &amp; I don’t understand why they are not important to everyone.
   Actually true
  Hold up a mirror &amp; see if it fogs
   I’m honored to work with an amazing group of people at Tesla, but always happy to talk to an ace who might want to join
   Safe to lick. I checked.
 In a month or so
 Will check with our cat, Schrödinger, but I don’t think she’s going to like it
 Spoiler alert. Next thing you’ll tell me is they don’t like pajamas.
Feels like a show &amp; tell weekend. I wonder what the cat dragged in …
  Don’t be too quick to lick. That could go wrong. Look closely &amp; smell first. Ur welcome.
  Lvl 16 Neutral Good Half-Elf Fighter/Magic-user
 Yes
 Wizard alien 🧙‍♂️👽
 Yeah, but I got 100 gp &amp; Roc Feather of Never-ending Tickles
Wrote in Grimoire, joined Fellowship  
Interesting read  
 Whether you plan to buy a Dual Motor Performance Model 3 or not, take it for a test drive anyway. It’s like having pure fun jacked straight into your brain whenever you want.
  Performance version suspension is 1cm lower &amp; has stronger brakes in upgrade package
  Happy birthday, Malala! Happy to support.
  Gathering input this week, will begin taking action next week and let people know how they can help
   Even have the URL  
  Hmm, could def make some pretty sweet high-tech micro-missiles in arrow form
 If you have cool arrows, you’re in
  Ok, thanks. Will let you know.
  Sure, will call tomorrow
__ They should go where their heart takes them, but some of the boys seem to be interested in physics &amp; engineering
With my team after a profoundly interesting discussion of history, philosophy &amp; luck with Vice President Wang in 中南海紫光阁  
Excellent meetings with senior leaders in China. Very thoughtful about the long-term future.
 Would love to. It’s been too long.
 Prob early next year
Just finished an amazing 3 day visit to China. The world has never seen human energy &amp; vigor at such scale. Incredibly impressed with Tesla China team &amp; potential for the future.
 Sure 🌌 💫
 Look, at least it’s not the Magellanic Clouds. They’re basically next door.
Just between us, I have a teleportation stargate to the Andromeda galaxy. It’s amazing.  
So true  
_17m  The pumps I saw were running v high flow rate all the way from cave 3. They stopped shortly after boys were rescued &amp; water level rose to roof level all way back to cave 1. That was great work.
 Sounds good
 Glad to hear that. Engineering team also getting feedback from the British dive team on how to improve the design for future applications.
    It will happen for sure. Damn.
 Should drive temp to target. Why fan speed on app?
   Lots of fake accounts on Twitter characterized by high following/follower ratio to make it seem like many real people when it isn’t. Wonder why.
 _highroller Damn, now I want donuts 🍩
_highroller Yeah
  Good point. Maybe use non-plumbers with work inspected/approved by pros.
 You’re right on both counts. Most houses in Flint have safe water, but they’ve lost faith in govt test results. Some houses are still outliers. Will organize a weekend in Flint to add filters to those houses with issues &amp; hopefully fix perception of those that are actually good.
 Maybe rewarding to organize a barnstorming weekend for water filter installation?
 For now, reply to my tweet with ppm &amp; ppb test results &amp; will send someone to install a water filter. Creating email flint.com, but I’m in China so that won’t be working until tomorrow.
 Please consider this a commitment that I will fund fixing the water in any house in Flint that has water contamination above FDA levels. No kidding.
 Great move
 Why sir … 😊
Stockholm: it’s not just a syndrome
 Good point
 Definitely. Can’t wait to try that. Been a little distracted past few months on mostly Tesla matters, but back at it soon.
 Yes, and springy, like a highly damped trampoline
Well … it looked smaller on paper
Catching rocket fairings falling from space has proven tricky, so we made the net really big  
  Yes. Caves are now filled with water again. Difficulty of passage is massively dependent on water level. Little kids can walk/swim in when low, but it can be deadly to pro divers when high. Pump &amp; generator engineering team deserves some credit for the rescue.
  It sometimes feels like reality is a moral filter. I suppose that is what religion tells us. Wonder what I should do differently.
    _Wheel _Ideas  Makes a lot of sense
 This reaction has shaken my opinion of many people. We were asked to create a backup option &amp; worked hard to do so. Checked with dive team many times to confirm it was worthwhile. Now it’s there for anyone who needs it in future. Something’s messed up if this is not a good thing.
  I think the person who attacked me on Twitter will survive somehow
  Thanks for correcting me. I meant to say over half a million people.
  _Wheel _Ideas  Please lmk contamination levels of any kind when you test the water
 _Wheel _Ideas  Please lmk results of your water tests
 _Wheel _Ideas  When you’re there next week, are you planning to test water sources for lead?
_Ryan Should be very soon. We’ve already made around 100 Model 3 Performance cars for test drives in stores.
  Exactly
 No, it means I created jobs for 50,000 people directly and, through parts suppliers &amp; supporting professions, ~250,000 people indirectly, thus supporting half a million families. What have you done?
 Already have
_kistler  Ironically, the “billionaire” label, when used by media, is almost always meant to devalue &amp; denigrate the subject. I wasn’t called that until my companies got to a certain size, but reality is that I still do the same science &amp; engineering as before. Just the scale has changed.
  Good for rescuing vulnerable patients in dangerous environments, particularly if water, toxic gas or dangerous bacteria/viruses present, as patient would remain dry &amp; at std air pressure entire time.
  Yes, it was specifically designed to pass that point
 Moreover, based on extensive cave video review &amp; discussion with several divers who know journey, SpaceX engineering is absolutely certain that mini-sub can do entire journey &amp; demonstrate at any time.
 The former Thai provincial governor (described inaccurately as “rescue chief”) is not the subject matter expert. That would be Dick Stanton, who co-led the dive rescue team. This is our direct correspondence:  
Great news that they made it out safely. Congratulations to an outstanding rescue team!
  Ok
Just returned from Cave 3. Mini-sub is ready if needed. It is made of rocket parts &amp; named Wild Boar after kids’ soccer team. Leaving here in case it may be useful in the future. Thailand is so beautiful.  
_Man  That would be cool. I wonder what it’s like under all that ice.
 _online A second one that is 30cm shorter is almost complete
 Yes. Those videos are from this morning.
_online According to divers who have made the passage, yes. However, we also made an exact replica that is inflatable, so that the entire path can be tested without risk of blockage.
Simulating maneuvering through a narrow passage  
 Thanks, but we’ve not done anything useful yet. It is all other people.
 According to divers who have made the journey, this is capable of maneuvering through all passages
  Tube diameter is 31cm
 Mini-sub arriving in about 17 hours. Hopefully useful. If not, perhaps it will be in a future situation.
Thanks  for letting us use your pool
 It is an honor to work with them
With some mods, this could also work as an escape pod in space

 I want to know who is running the Etherium scambots! Mad skillz …
   It is both alarming &amp; explanatory that you run a psych ward
 Diver weight belts wrapped around outside. Mini-sub only weighs ~40kg dry, so easy to carry on long dry sections of cave, then add weight belts for wet sections.
   Yeah, that sounds cool. Music makes things better. Calms the mind. Adding padded wall pockets for a hand radio &amp; phone/music player.
__  Aluminum shell has high thermal conductivity, so will be close to ambient. If ambient is cold, a thin layer of neoprene insulation around interior will keep occupant warm.
   
 Buoyancy adjusted by strapping diver weight belts around body of capsule. They’re prevented from sliding off by the 6 diver handhold attachments.
  Testing for 3 more hours in LA, then it’s on a plane to Thailand
 Design based on dive team feedback (primarily Stanton): 4 air / oxygen ports front &amp; rear, front ports protected by nosecone. Dual O-ring seal on acrylic rear plate with clear view of occupant head. Leak/buckling proof to 10X cave water pressure.
  I am an engineer
   _Sulli _Booch  Tight control code is always C
  _Sulli _Booch  Python is done right. Great name story too.
  If I am a narcissist (which might be true), at least I am a useful one
 _Sulli _Booch  🖤🖤🖤 Python 🖤🖤🖤
 Pretty close. There is a nosecone on the front to protect against rocks impacting fwd air hoses with a hole on the side for hoses to exit.
_Sulli _Booch  Turbo
_Booch  C
 Given Chiang Rai airport hours, soonest we could’ve departed US was an hour ago, but cave now closed for diver rescue. Will continue testing in LA in case needed later or for somewhere else in future.
 Will do. Even if not useful here, perhaps it will be in a future situation.
Extremely talented dive team. Makes sense given monsoon. Godspeed.  
 Yes
   Yes
  Fitted for a kid or small adult to minimize open air. Segmented compartments to place rocks or dive weights &amp; adjust bouyancy.
  Yes
 4 handles/hitch points on front &amp; 4 on rear. 2 air tank connections on front &amp; 2 on rear, allowing 1 to 4 tanks simultaneously connected, all recessed for impact protection w secondary cap seal if leak develops.
  I’m in LA working with the SpaceX team building the kid mini-sub
 Construction complete in about 8 hours, then 17 hour flight to Thailand
Continue to be amazed by the bravery, resilience &amp; tenacity of kids &amp; diving team in Thailand. Human character at its best.
Got more great feedback from Thailand. Primary path is basically a tiny, kid-size submarine using the liquid oxygen transfer tube of Falcon rocket as hull. Light enough to be carried by 2 divers, small enough to get through narrow gaps. Extremely robust.
 Ground winds would
 Yes. All-weather. ~300km/h high altitude winds. ~60km/h ground winds. It’s a beast.
 Can’t be too buoyant
Some good feedback from cave experts in Thailand. Iterating with them on an escape pod design that might be safe enough to try. Also building an inflatable tube with airlocks. Less likely to work, given tricky contours, but great if it does.
     Good idea
    Prob wise to add an air tank (butt end fwd to take impacts) in nose of pod &amp; vent valve in rear. Set air tank to slow bleed rate, then no need for SCUBA mouthpiece or regulator. Training unnecessary &amp; less susceptible to panic attack.
 You’re welcome. Happy birthday! 🎁🎉🎂
   Yeah, that’s what I’m talking about in that tweet — double-layer Kevlar pressure pod with Teflon coating. Other approach is a long inflatable air sock. Both worth trying.
     Exactly. You can put socks on your feet the same way. There would be no relative motion between the tube &amp; rock wall.
 It’s open so that others who are closer to the problem can consider this as one possible solution
  Should be possible to increase the air inflow rate above the leak rate, unless there is a very big hole. If oxygen % is dropping, suggests that leak holes are not large.
 I would def recommend this
  Building double-layer Kevlar pressure pods with Teflon coating to slip by rocks &amp; front/rear rope tow hitch &amp; lead pockets for neutral buoyancy. ~60 cm oval. Testing this aft in a pool with a subject who has never done SCUBA. Do the divers think something like this might work?
   Interesting
  Great, thanks
 Inflatable tubes &amp; pods being made out of Kevlar for better abrasion resistance. A SpaceX engineer happens to be in Thailand &amp; is headed there now. Could one of the divers DM me? Need approx contour of most difficult sections for tube fab.
  So long as air pressure in tube higher than water pressure, air will blow out &amp; water won’t come in
  Does you know output voltage &amp; amperage of those generator trucks? 3 phase? What frequency? Will need high voltage transformer to carry power over distance or very thick cable. Beyond that, only batteries will work. Will prep Powerwalls in case needed.
 SpaceX &amp; Boring Co engineers headed to Thailand tomorrow to see if we can be helpful to govt. There are probably many complexities that are hard to appreciate without being there in person.
 Looks like 1st bit of water is close enough to entrance to be pumped out. 2nd &amp; 3rd would need battery packs, air pumps &amp; tubes. If depth of 2nd is accurate, would need ~0.5 bar tube pressure. Prob need to enter tube, zip up &amp; then transit.
  So long as air feed rate exceeds leak rate, tube remains inflated. This is how bouncy castles or inflatable mazes work. Needs very little power as the work (physics def of work) done is low. Pumping out water faster than it enters the cave system is prob 10X to 1000X more power.
  Have a small velcro slit entrance &amp; exit in circumferential direction (half stress of longitudinal direction)
  Walking speed is around 5km/h, but if you’re in an air tube, time doesn’t matter much. If tube diameter was 1.5m, a fast walk of 5km would take 40 mins or so. Just need to duck for the narrow sections.
 Maybe worth trying: insert a 1m diameter nylon tube (or shorter set of tubes for most difficult sections) through cave network &amp; inflate with air like a bouncy castle. Should create an air tunnel underwater against cave roof &amp; auto-conform to odd shapes like the 70cm hole.
_long  Exactly. A journalist who publicly expresses love for &amp; parties in Vegas with a prominent shortseller of any given company should disclose this when writing articles.
    I know you &amp; believe you, but it means Lopez misled readers in her article, because that is exactly what she said
  I didn’t ask anyone and the people who sent the snapshots don’t work for me. They just don’t like hypocrites.
 They were sent to me by multiple people on the Internet. I don’t use Facebook.
   Lopez wrote that Melissa Lee of CNBC was “dancing her face off” with Chanos in Vegas. Is this true?  
_Padival  Why did  publish a love letter puff piece about Chanos’s cuff links? Who took the pic? Obv not objective  
_Padival    
_Padival  . posted on social media that she was partying in Vegas with Chanos &amp; Tepper with caption “Love both these dudes”. Doesn’t sound very objective  
  Norwegians are right to be upset with Tesla. We are having trouble expanding our service facilities in Oslo especially. Can solve quickly with Tesla mobile service vans, but awaiting govt permission to do so.
    Are you 100% certain that  stands by  &amp; supports everything she’s done? Why won’t Lopez go on record saying that she never offered Tripp anything for inside info or asked him to break his confidentiality agreement by taking detailed video of Tesla IP?
       _Padival   Sounds fishy. How did that go down?
    True
    _Padival  So  publicly stated she stans for Chanos, Tesla’s most prominent short-seller. In her words, he is “one of the greatest.” Her articles print Chanos’s view verbatim. This is not journalism.
  _Padival  . You stated publicly that you “see eye to eye” with Chanos, the most prominent short-seller of Tesla. Have you ever provided him with material non-public information about Tesla?
 What a coincidence …
   Am not attacking all media or even all of . Just asked if you inform public about an analyst’s prediction track record about a subject when putting them on your show.
 _Padival  Indeed, very simple question. To be specific: , did you compensate or promise to compensate Martin Tripp for inside information about Tesla? Did he, under that inducement, provide you with exaggerated negative info, which you printed, but turned out to be untrue?
  Exactly. , I just asked a simple question. Please answer.
_Enough      Strange. , is it true that you are putting on analysts with such low ratings &amp; extremely bad prediction records? Are your viewers informed about an analyst’s track record before hearing their opinion.
Note, no one is in the car or controlling remotely. Car is driving entirely by itself.  
_Padival  Sounds very sketchy if true. , is it possible you’re  serving as an inside trading source for one of Tesla’s biggest short-sellers? An ex-Tesla employee just went on record formally claiming you bribed him &amp; he sent you valuable Tesla IP in exchange. Is this true?
_Padival  has published several false articles about Tesla, including a doozy where she claimed Tesla scrapped more batteries than our total S,X &amp;3 production number, which is physically impossible.
    Wow, so  of  wrote article that misled public about Model 3 production &amp; followed that up with mean tweet to me on my bday. Nice work  &amp; .
  ., why did you mislead the people public about this number?
  . is relentlessly negative about Tesla. They just wrote a bogus article saying S production last week was low by 800 cars. S/X annual prod is set at ~100k, ie 1,900/week. Tesla built 1,913 S/X cars at our standard ~50/50 split last week, which is right on target.
 Happy to support
 Boring Co has advanced ground penetrating radar &amp; is pretty good at digging holes. Don’t know if pump rate is limited by electric power or pumps are too smal. If so, could dropship fully charged Powerpacks and pumps.
 Belfast is beautiful
 No, was just there with my kids for a few hours to see the GoT set &amp; had dinner at a pub. Love the show and GRRM’s books.
 Should be coming soon
 I will buy tons of your merch
_Walker9 Very early on, we had the ability to use the car as a battery outputting power. Maybe worth revisiting that.
 Camera &amp; onboard neural net should detect. If very close (below 15 ft), will show up on ultrasonics
 Ok, will look into it
 I suspect that the Thai govt has this under control, but I’m happy to help if there is a way to do so
   You never know ..
  ⚡️Loona⚡️
   Ideas &amp; corrections that could make a product or service better are always welcome
 Yeah I like ICP
  Noted
 Wow, Model A. That’s cool.
Whoop whoop  
The Spice Flows  
   No problem, happy to donate some personally
   Sure
  Looking into this. Will fix if so.
7000 cars, 7 days ♥️ Tesla Team ♥️
 Then what’s this wand for?
 💡
Who likes short shorts?  
Or at least the closest thing to magic that exists in the real world
Excession  
Engineering is magic
 Love Awesomo
   
Space Laser  
_Empire 🧛‍♀️
Spacebow  
 Everything is sentient, especially sentience
_ragtah  If the rules force defeat, the rules must change
The Spice. Must. Flow.  
Open the Knaack HAL  
  🛸 obv
  … the money
  Follow the 🐇
   Busted. It’s me.
 👻
  That pretty much proves it isn’t me
 Certianly glad I’m not one them. Phew!
_ragtah  Wrath of Khan, Kobayashi Maru
 Sad news. He wrote some epic sci fi.
 Thanks Bill
Paint shop  
 _su  That’s cool. One of my favorite lines! Monty Python is so brilliant.
 Oh, I love trap. Good suggestions welcome!
 _su We need more &amp; better emojis now!!Seriously. So little to work with.
_su And one more thing, your father smells of 🍒 and I 💨 in your general direction
Appreciate all the good wishes. First bday I’ve spent in the factory, but it’s somehow the best.
_su We didn’t steal his mug crayon drawing of a farting unicorn, We didn’t benefit from it, We don’t want it, And we still offered to pay for it. You are a jackass.
  Happily for the victorious 🐌, he is indeed still far faster than Godot. Line-Storm comes closer to nipping at his heel (?), but Prufrock will make it a true nail-biter race!
 Bronco rocks
   No standard automotive solution could be built in time, so we created a new solution. It is working &amp; has slightly higher quality than the more traditional general assembly line. Perhaps most surprising is that the total cost of production in the Sprung tent is lower.
 All Tesla vehicles come with cabin overheat protection  
  I hate whole idea of brands and branding. So much bs. I hope it messes with our brand. Brands suck.
 Sir, this will not be some a dainty little buttercup of a truck! Driver’s seat will be big enough to fit André the giant (love that guy).
 400 to 500 mile option definitely. Higher, maybe.
 For sure
 Should be easy to add as a feature like calendar
You’re welcome!  
 Yes. Highly recommend doing so btw.
 That will be standard
 That goes without saying  
_hippie 300,000 lb towing capacity
 It will
 For sure! When doing US govt crash safety testing, the Model S roof was so strong, it broke their testing machine.  
 Wow, great idea! Since it will already have a Tesla pneumatics system, it totally makes sense to add a utility port.
Pickup truck will have power outlets allowing use of heavy duty 240V, high power tools in field all day. No generator needed.
The Tesla Truck will have dual motor all-wheel drive w crazy torque &amp; a suspension that dynamically adjusts for load. Those will be standard.
 It will parallel park automatically &amp; have 360 degree cameras &amp; sonar
What would you love to see in a Tesla pickup truck? I have a few things in mind, but what do you think are small, but important nuances &amp; what would be seriously next level?
   “Virtue signaling” is super annoying &amp; there are lots of phoneys who are actually huge jerks, but jump on every social cause du jour. But I’m really proud of the fact that # of changes Tesla had to make to achieve 100/100 (before even knowing about the LGBTQ index) was zero.
  Don’t buy our car if that’s a problem. People should be free to live their lives where their heart takes them ❤️🧡💛💚💙💜🖤💖🌈
  Then you will really hate that Tesla scored 100/100 four years in a row on LGBTQ equality  
          We must aspire to truth
         Important to read the Wash Post article. The “unable to account for” number does not refer to actual lost children. It refers to calls not answered or returned in a 30 day period.
 Hopefully in V9.0 release in a few months
         True
        We should always be concerned about the welfare of children &amp; those who cannot protect themselves, wherever they may be, but it seems much of the reporting on this issue has been partisan &amp; often inaccurate
        “… of the 7,635 children, 6,075 remained where they were placed, 52 had moved, 28 had run away and five were deported. That left 1,475 migrant children. Just because their parents or guardians did not return HHS’s phone calls after 30 days does not mean the children are missing”
        “All 7,635 children were resettled by HHS. After 30 days, the department called the parents or guardians to check up on things. But these calls were not required by law, and in 1,475 cases, the parents or guardians did not respond”
        This Washington Post article seems good  
 As individuals, we will all die in blink of an eye on a galactic timescale. What can live on for long time is civilization. Those who first go to other planets will face far more risk of death &amp; hardship than those who stay. Over time, space travel will be safe &amp; open to all.
 This doesn’t take into account shifting trillions of tons of carbon from subsurface to atmosphere, which could accelerate overheating time by a factor of a million (or so). This is why Tesla.
  A billion at most, so 20% max. Still basically in the nick of time from an age-of-Earth standpoint.
 Humanity is not perfect, but it’s all we’ve got
 Could be very close call. Earth is ~4.5B years old &amp; sun will expand to heat Earth beyond livable temp in ~0.5B years, so if advent of civilization took 10% longer, it wouldn’t have happened at all.
  Let’s find out. It would be amazing to encounter an alien civilization, provided it is not their invasion fleet! 🛸 🛸 🛸 🛸 🛸 🛸 🛸 🛸 🛸 🛸
_Ryan   Good news coming soon
 Yes
 Yes, we are essentially a steward of life &amp; duty-bound imo to ensure its continuance
 Life is good
It is unknown whether we are the only civilization currently alive in the observable universe, but any chance that we are is added impetus for extending life beyond Earth
This is why we must preserve the light of consciousness by becoming a spacefaring civilization &amp; extending life to other planets  
 So strange
_Ryan   Critical autonomous safety features like emergency braking are standard, but convenience features like active cruise control are not
 _Ebright It’s a tough call. Reality is that it will be pretty easy to bully a self-driving car, as it will always yield. Will prob have a manual override that requires continuous press for hardcore lane changes.
_Ebright We considered going beyond Mad Max to “LA Freeway” level, but that’s too loco
It’s real  
 _henke  Thanks!
 Cyborg Dragon Tesla almost done
Tesla Semi Truck in Mad Max Mode  
_ Almost forgot Sinclair ZX Spectrum &amp; Spectravideo before PC. Sinclair had amazing games, especially Elite.
_ Vic 20 -&gt; IBM PC
_henke  🚀 Road, Hawthorne
  .sus
 _henke 420 haha
_Enough He had a way with words

 I was dying to use the word sus
  Working in the factory
 _Cohen Expanding the tour soon. So many cool things to see. Tesla car factory has 3rd largest footprint of any building on Earth. Maybe 1st if you include all our sweet tents ⛺️😜
Looks so sus when we paint cars red  
 Which rolls out today
 Will be there in next release
 So big you can’t believe it
srsly  
Vicious torque
Tesla factory rn  

.  
_Ryan Good catch!

 Exactly 🤖♥️
What is my purpose? Sentient seats.  
_Ryan   Thanks 🖤
_Ryan  At Fremont until late tonight, Giga tomorrow, Fremont Sunday. GA4 is great, but have to say that GA3 crew is pulling off miracles against all odds.
 Infinity Work, the Reality game
  That would be tricky to sequence, but maybe
 Was thinking of offering an extended Tesla factory tour option where you could help build part of a car &amp; understand how they come together. I know it would have been super fun for me when I was a kid (or now).
_  It’s called Top Secret
 Yes
  _Padival   When I was a kid, I built model airplanes, trainsets, rockets (mixed my own powder), explosives (kinda surprised I still have all fingers), a radio, lots of software. Built a primitive MRI machine in college.
 _Padival   Yeah, but I’m not sure what the big deal is. I like building things. If that ends up being useful work too, even better.
   We will add a config to lower the alert
  Apply light force to the steering wheel. Alert is being changed to this text.
 Try saying “bug report”. Might work better. Ironic if the bug report about bug reports isn’t working :)
 Thanks for the feedback, will investigate
 Sure
     Congratulations!
_Padival   It’s actually pretty fun building electric cars. Product is useful to other people &amp; good for environment. I think that’s fundamental goodness.
 Btw, if anyone else wants to build this tunnel, please do so. It’s a lot of work.
 Stop being such a Jacobin 🐈🧙‍♂️
Frank Herbert &amp; Falcon Heavy
Without change, something sleeps inside us, and seldom awakens. The sleeper must awaken. FH …  
Dune. The spice must flow.  

    “We power the press” in 1997. Ironic.
 Thanks for coming by our car factory with . Tesla team was super fired up to see you! Congrats on your victory!!
  Crazy, that was over 22 years ago. Thanks for believing in us!
 There is more, but the actions of a few bad apples will not stop Tesla from reaching its goals. With 40,000 people, the worst 1 in 1000 will have issues. That’s still ~40 people.
      Today. It’s kinda there in US with welfare but rules are messed up and amount is too low.
     Also think there should be a universal basic income that doesn’t change even if you get a job. Productivity should be rewarded.
 Because honey is a vegetable
   Considerably less so than our competitors (longer discussion)
     Yes, consumption tax is way better. Also, higher estate tax better than income/cap gains tax. Probability of progeny being equally excellent at capital allocation is not high.
    Exactly
    He’s obv wrong. Forcing function for any 100% mkt share monopolist to improve is weak &amp; a national govt is that by fiat. One may find lowish correlation for negativity, but that does not mean low causation.
 Great name. A little on the nose.
   That’s really decision about how good you think govt is at allocating capital. Buffett, for example, is vastly better than any govt at allocating capital. Consumption vs capital allocation extremely misunderstood. Biggest missing piece in public understanding of what “money” is.
  Yeah, all-inclusive tax rate of 40% seems about right. Below 30% is unrealistic for critical govt functions unless national defense is de facto outsourced &amp; above 50% too negatively affects economic output.
Cool video  
Thank you for helping those in need  
 _munz   To be clear, Tesla European Headquarters will remain in Netherlands
 Yup
 That’s ridiculous, lions can’t vote, they don’t even have opposable thumbs. Also, they’d need 61%, so no.
_munz   Germany is a leading choice for Europe. Perhaps on the German-French border makes sense, near the Benelux countries
   Brevity is the sole meunière of wit
  Original Star Wars
  Hahaha
  Die fröhliche Wissenschaft und Eristische Dialektik: Die Kunst, Recht zu Behalten
  Das war ein unbeabsichtigter Witz ⛪ 🌃 🤗
 Vielleicht muss ich die Kirche im Dorf verlassen?
  Will do. Am enquiring on many channels. Regards to Scott.
  Do you know anyone who has gone there?
 Where are they?
      Where are you going to march?
       That seems unlikely
     Just because I donate doesn’t mean I support every last thing a person or organization does, but I like all the people I’ve met from . They really care about doing good.
    I am one of the top donors to 
 I couldn’t even keep the US in the Paris Accord, but if there is some way for me to help these kids I will do so
  I think so
I hope the kids are ok
Shelter  
   You’re probably right. Maybe after Tesla drama calms down.
  _fan_93    I’m at the factory a lot. Pretty good workout just walking around. It’s big.
  _fan_93   They look beautiful
    _CA Will maybe do a media tour next week. Team deserves recognition. This was miraculous.
 _fan_93    It’s actually way better than the factory building. More comfortable &amp; a great view of the mountains.
   Not sure we actually need a building. This tent is pretty sweet. Tesla Grohmann line is in place at Giga &amp; spooling up now. They super kicked ass too. Heiliger Strohsack!
  They also poured the concrete &amp; built the whole assembly line using scrap we had in warehouses. And it’s way better than the other GA line that cost hundreds of millions!
   No
 Needed another general assembly line to reach 5k/week Model 3 production. A new building was impossible, so we built a giant tent in 2 weeks. Tesla team kfa!! Gah, love them so much ♥️🚘💫
  You’re welcome, bad fiction writer 78  
  Dude, we are California, which is extremely pro union. People can form a union tomorrow &amp; nothing Tesla could do to stop it. UAW can’t even get enough sigs to request a vote, cause they have nothing to offer.
 Your union brothers  
 You won’t find pro-union either. The books are all about freedom. No one is forced to join any organization.
_Wasserman    Thanks, good advice
  They have about three weeks before their short position explodes
 Good points. Already mostly working in the developer software I’m driving.
     Can’t wait for the new  season to start!
 We’ve always provided healthcare, hourly wages above union &amp; Tesla stock. Also, free drinks &amp; snacks. Try to make it fun too. Top ten hourly workers cumulatively received Tesla stock now worth $1M to $2M. Nobody wants UAW, so UAW keeps trashing Tesla &amp; me via 3rd parties.
 Glad you teach physics. That and critical thinking (ie how not to be tricked) are foundational for all kids to learn.
    Yeah, I think we pretty much agree. Btw, great show.
    I think essential services, incl health care, should be taken care of by govt/taxpayers (socialist) &amp; other parts of economy should be served by companies competing to serve the people (capitalist). Aka, the view held by most of America.
_rodgers They started it &amp; attacked me personally
Search UAW and “corruption”. Very long reading list. Great organization.  
    “Profit” just means you earned more money than you spent &amp; certainly does spark innovation. Jesus. This is obv a good thing &amp; extremely hard. It has taken Tesla 15 years &amp; we’re almost there. Every other US car company besides Ford &amp; Tesla has gone bankrupt.
 They don’t seem to think much or care about the future beyond a narrow horizon
 Engels wrote 2nd &amp; 3rd volumes based on Marx’s “notes”. Less reliable.
 Wanted to help transition the world to sustainable, clean energy and extend life as we know it beyond Earth. Those problems require a lot of hardware.
  Wow, you know nothing &amp; are worthy of contempt. The world is under massive attack due to climate change &amp; you couldn’t care less.
   Read it. Like the green, translucent Martian opal?
   Iron pyrite
 Congratulations to LA Times and Patrick Soon-Shiong!
   You’re just a troll/bot, but I will reply anyway. I arrived in Montreal at 17 by myself with $2k. No support, no contacts, nothing. Father said I’d fail &amp; be back in 3 months.
 I don’t want to see anyone lose their money. Or I will at least provide fair warning before it happens, as I have done in the past.
  You think all companies are bad and all unions good? That’s a very bigoted position.
Well said  
 Then you’ll be fine
  _______   Exactly. Our NDA is actually shorter &amp; simpler than most.
 _______   ...which clearly doesn’t work. UAW and Wall Street shorts know every detail of what’s happening at Tesla. Storm clouds are gathering, so they’re getting desperate.
 _______  Then look a little closer, doctorow. Read the whole thread.
 _______   More propaganda. The NDA only prevents disclosure of Tesla proprietary IP or material non-public information (insider trading).
 How big is your short position? Just curious.
 _______   Union flyers are handed out all the time in the factory. I know because people in the factory laugh at the ridiculous propaganda &amp; hand them to me. This one guy’s claim about being stopped once in a parking lot is false and irrelevant.
 I endorse freedom to form a union too, as well as freedom not to do so if they feel Tesla is a good company. UAW has major conflicts of interest &amp; failed our car plant already when they abandoned us in 2010. Tesla can only hire 5% of applicants, so must be doing something right.
_______   UAW doesn’t have 30% of signatures (about 6000 people) needed for a vote. They can’t even muster enough people for a free bbq. Instead, they’re getting paid trolls &amp; far left shills to trash Tesla &amp; me in press &amp; social media. Such creeps.
  I’m not against all unions, but UAW has a track record of destroying productivity so a company can’t compete on world market. Our current factory went bankrupt under UAW before we took it over. Don’t want Tesla to die too.
  I am too, of sorts. Govt (ie other taxpayers) should take care of critical needs of people, incl defense, judiciary, health care, etc. Rest should be companies competing to provide best product or service to the people.
  _ray  Was originally called Puff the Magic Dragon, as people said I was high if though it could work, so I named it after their insult.
 Iain certainly wasn’t pro-union in the Culture books. At all. And wouldn’t be in the case of Tesla. Banks was about freedom through &amp; through. Maybe for a single buyer (monopsony) vs single seller (monopoly), I would be too, but that’s a special case.
 _ray   
 _ray  SX 300 &amp; soon SX 500. Kind of a modern version of Inconel superalloys. High strength at temperature, extreme oxidation resistance. Needed for ~800 atmosphere, hot, oxygen-rich turbopump on Raptor rocket engine.
_ray  Structures, engines, avionics, guidance &amp; control software, new alloys, space lasers (ooh, maybe I shouldn’t have said that) …
  Love you too 💕
 👽🧚‍♀️🚀🍃🍄🍕🍕🍕
 Fair point
Auto-semiotic asphyxiation (sorry, couldn’t resist)
 And I don’t trust that Engels guy. He could have made up most of 2nd &amp; 3rd volumes. Nobody actually knows.
 Your math isn’t very good. Would require 61%. And what’s your issue anyway? Better suggestions are welcome.
The Semi-erotics of Evil  
 I dare you to stop following me. Do it.
_Writer Ok
The enemy of my enemy is myself  
_42   Exactly
_SS  Libertinarian
 Direct democracy by the people. Laws must be short, as there is trickery in length. Automatic expiration of rules to prevent death by bureaucracy. Any rule can be removed by 40% of people to overcome inertia. Freedom.
  The mind sacrificing itself in the final ship battle
 All of them, especially Surface Detail
If you must know, I am a utopian anarchist of the kind best described by Iain Banks
    I disagree with that goal &amp; gave away Tesla patents to help other companies  
  If I’m not a communist, why do I make red cars 🚘 🤔
  Very appealing if you’re a sophomore in college. It’s a counterpoint to communism and useful as such, but should be tempered with kindness.
   That is why it is critical to support competition. Excess profits draw in competitors who then drive down prices.
 lol
  Read Das Kapital when I was 14, incl cross-checking English translation of original German. Adam Smith FTW obv. Ironically, future automation will naturally lead to greater equality of consumption. Monopolies are true enemy of people. Competing to serve is good.
 _Ryan Might actually be his!
Amazing work by Tesla team. Built entire new general assembly line in 3 weeks w minimal resources. Love u guys so much! Pic of 1st Model 3 dual motor performance coming off the line …  
 You’re a docile puppet of the UAW. Be honest about what you are.
 Yes
 Sigh
By the way, I am actually a socialist. Just not the kind that shifts resources from most productive to least productive, pretending to do good, while actually causing harm. True socialism seeks greatest good for all.
“No sense of humor” is certainly proving itself true. Good grief! How many socialists does it take to screw in a lightbulb?  Answer: That’s not funny!!
  Boys High is a government school for anyone local, which we were
 Lake Show
Heading back into the factory, so that’s enough for now. Don’t take my Tweet too seriously. For one thing, it’s called a “Tweet”.
  No
 My father has no money. Only reason he even has a house is because my brother &amp; I bought it for him on condition that he not cause harm to others. That obviously failed.
 There is considerable confusion between wealth as consumption &amp; wealth as labor allocation. By latter measure, anyone in govt whose budget exceeds $1B is a billionaire. Government is the largest corporation.
Socialism vs capitalism is not even the right question. What really matters is avoiding monopolies that restrict people’s freedom.
_Frodo Universal income will be necessary over time if AI takes over most human jobs
 Marx was a capitalist. He even wrote a book about it.
 A socialist
Those who proclaim themselves “socialists” are usually depressing, have no sense of humor &amp; attended an expensive college. Fate loves irony.
  What is yours?
 What is your utopia?
 The future is a set of branching probability streams. Some actions by humanity have an extremely leveraged effect on shape &amp; size of those streams.
   Strongly disagree. I love humanity.
 _bitterwolf  Already did. Meant to go longer, but ran out of time.  
_bitterwolf  I always wanted to do a terms &amp; conditions cover of Green Eggs &amp; Ham
 Foundation Series &amp; Zeroth Law are fundamental to creation of SpaceX
 I love Banks. Best books in recent years imo are Iain Banks &amp; George Martin.
 Given how bad I am at poetry, probably Vogon
Should prob articulate philosophy underlying my actions. It’s pretty simple &amp; mostly influenced by Douglas Adams &amp; Isaac Asimov.
  My donations are anonymous
 Already sold &gt;$100M TSLA for charity. Will do about that every few years. Major disbursements in about 20 years when Tesla is steady state.
My “pay” is in options, which only matter if stock goes up &amp; I sell. Will use that to make life multiplanetary, help education &amp; environment on Earth w my foundation. Just don’t want us to be sad about the future.  
 Dankonia
    We use less than 3% cobalt in our batteries &amp; will use none in next gen
 Yes, interface will change with Version 9 software
 Will be adjusting screen alert to clarify that we mean “slight up or downward force on the wheel”, not really “hold the wheel”
 Some very, very tough calls. Had to let go of good people, but I think they will find new jobs quickly.
Difficult, but necessary Tesla reorg underway. My email to the company has already leaked to media. Here it is unfiltered:  
   That is actual footage
  Back in the Precambrian era when the main form of life was a sponge
 _thewalls  Thanks! Have heard universally great things about your podcasts.
   Of course, but it’s the kind of hustle that you like even with full knowledge. People can obv read the Internet &amp; anyone who wants a refund will get one. I predict basically zero. The honest-to-goodness fun value is amazing &amp; we’re never going to make them again.
 _Lima_Bean   Trade is just that Roadster becomes a 2 seater instead of a 2+2. COPV in place of the kid seats, which is prob wise for many reasons
_Lima_Bean   Exactly. Total energy stored even in ultra compressed air is low vs battery, but power output is insane. The composite overwrapped pressure vessel (COPV) is most advanced ever made. It’s what SpaceX is qualifying for NASA crewed missions. Extremely robust — literally bulletproof.
_1999_  Not recommended for urban environments
  Yes
_ravi  The actual amount of time I spend on Twitter is tiny. My tweets are literally what I’m thinking at the moment, not carefully crafted corporate bs, which is really just banal propaganda.
  It is amazingly hard to find a simple solution. A complicated one is relatively easy.
 Love this design. Simpler the better.
_MCEM  Add an R for Roadster 👽💕🚀
 Sigh. This is crux of matter: can’t make system too annoying or people won’t use it, negatively affecting safety, but also can’t allow people to get too complacent or safety again suffers. Latest update should have a positive effect on latter issue especially.
_thewalls   A lot of people whose judgment I respect have suggested this. Sounds like a good idea. Will do so after Model 3 production reaches 5k/week steady.
 Yes. Hopefully, I’m not tempting fate too much with that date. It was meant as a joke, but is about the right actual timing.
 Will do
  Correct, pure electric. Wish orbital rockets could be so too, but there’s no escaping Newton’s Third Law. SpaceX is already developing high efficiency CO2 capture with H2O to form liquid CH4 (methane) &amp; O2. Critical for propellant production at Mars Base Alpha.
 You have my word, Marques. Next gen Roadster will be absolutely out of this world. For those who love to drive, there is no finer car in history and we don’t think there will be another.
 Note, gas contained would be ultra high pressure air in a SpaceX rocket COPV bottle. The air exiting the thrusters would immediately be replenished whenever vehicle pack power draw allowed operation of the air pump, which is most of the time.
 Intent of new Tesla Roadster is to beat gas sports cars on every performance metric by far, no exceptions, thus transferring the “halo crown” effect gas cars have as the top speed leaders over to pure electric.
   That issue is better in latest Autopilot software rolling out now &amp; fully fixed in August update as part of our long-awaited Tesla Version 9. To date, Autopilot resources have rightly focused entirely on safety. With V9, we will begin to enable full self-driving features.
This is why I’m not impressed when reporters who were literally in junior high while I was in newsrooms all round the world say that if I only knew how newsrooms really worked, then I’d know everything’s fine &amp; no need for a media credibility rating system like Pravduh 🤔
Zip2 also built a newspaper publishing platform that brought hundreds of regional &amp; city papers online for the first time, and made major functionality advancements to the NY Times, Boston Globe &amp; Knight-Ridder websites. NYT, KR &amp; Hearst were all major investors in Zip2.
_remick  20 years of intense programming on extremely weak CPUs with nothing for memory &amp; a straw for bandwidth tends to burn itself onto your 🧠 like a branding iron. Can still remember trying to squeeze fractions of a millisecond out of the /?€}%$&amp; fetch_joystick_state function.
 In early 90s, I wrote a multitasker for PCs that spoofed the CPU &amp; CD-ROM to act in parallel, so could read video continuously while player sprite moved smoothly. Required C++, assembly &amp; direct flipping of CPU registers. That company’s name was Rocket Science. Fate loves irony.
 That’s quite a blast from the past! After my Zip2 experience w patents, I felt that patents (particularly software) inhibited innovation, instead of fostering it. I aspired to file zero patents after that. In 2014, we open-sourced all Tesla patents  
At Zip2, I wrote entire V1 of software for drawing vector maps &amp; calculating point to point directions anywhere in US (first ever company to do so), as well as white pages &amp; business listings w reviews (an early Yelp). Also wrote V1 of classifieds, autotrading &amp; real estate apps.
More background: I arrived in North America at 17 w $2000, a backpack &amp; a suitcase full of books. Paid my own way thru college. Dropped out of Stanford Eng/Phys grad school w $110k in college debt. Created Internet startup w bro &amp; Greg Khouri (love bro &amp; loved Greg, may he RIP)
  We don’t think our product will be the cause of any wildfires, but The Boring Company is donating $10k.
 Using the config you describe, plus an electric pump to replenish air in COPV, when car power draw drops below max pack power output, makes sense. But we are going to go a lot further.
19 years ago, when my 1st company got bought, I had to decide between buying a house in Palo Alto or a McLaren F1 (best car ever imo). Was no contest. I bought F1 &amp; a small condo that was much cheaper than the car. New Tesla Roadster will exceed all gas sports cars in every way…
SpaceX option package for new Tesla Roadster will include ~10 small rocket thrusters arranged seamlessly around car. These rocket engines dramatically improve acceleration, top speed, braking &amp; cornering. Maybe they will even allow a Tesla to fly …
Terms &amp; conditions for “Not-a-Flamethrower”  Please use as directed to avoid unintentionally burning things down. For simple &amp; concise instructions, we drew upon wisdom in great Dr Seuss book “Green Eggs and Ham”.     
Almost forgot! Due to recent regulatory/customs rules enacted to inhibit transport of anything called a Flamethrower, we have renamed our product: “Not a Flamethrower”.
_schmoo Yes
 Each flamethrower comes with a state-of-the-art The Boring Company brand fire extinguisher.   Will offer a TBC ice blaster before the dry season starts in winter.
Flamethrower obv best way to light your fireplace/BBQ. No more need to use a dainty “match” to ignite! If no wood, just drop your flamethrower in fire place! It will generate way more warmth than a quaint pile of logs.
 Coming soon
 I think so :)
Nothing makes your baby more zen than a few gentle puffs of a TBC Flamethrower  
First 1000 Boring Company Flamethrowers being picked up today!  
 _Ryan  We’re building out Tesla body repair in all major metro areas to ensure super fast &amp; excellent outcome
_Ryan Talked with Tesla team. Looks like we can do the aluminum Model 3 pedal covers (slightly different from S). Turning on production for Model 3 Performance version.
 Gigafactory should be on 100% renewable energy (primarily solar with some wind) by next year. Rollout of solar already begun.
_072  Yeah, actually closer to Skylab, but with 50% larger inner diameter
And we’re definitely going to have a pod bay door override button. Lesson learned.
 Definitely. Will also have Augmented Mode that will massively enhance human driving ability. Like a flying metal suit, but in car form …
Running track in  BF Spaceship will look something like this  
_Ryan No plans for aluminum pedals. Adds too much production complexity. Model 3 will def have summon, which will get way more advanced for S &amp; X w HW2 Autopilot &amp; all Model 3 cars.
  Working on improving
 No way 6 mins is enough for abs. I mean, come on, 7 mins is obv right.
 Oh please, that’s obv overkill
Tip of the day …  
  Coming soon
 We are ramping production as fast as possible. Wait should be closer to 6 months though, not 2 years.
 Congratulations . Good move by . Please use Matt’s Twitter pic. Essence of a good editor
 Yup, we are extending the net area by a factor of 4
Am def not under any illusion that this will end illiteracy, but I hope it helps at least a little  
_hedgehog Good morning, Sonic. Not sure how to break it to you, but …  
  We have about 11,000 projects underway in Puerto Rico
 Appreciated on behalf of Tesla team
_Sullivan4  You should get an invite to configure in next few days
  Definitely
_Soul  Leasing negatively effects Tesla cash flow, so we prob won’t offer Model 3 leases for 6 to 9 months. Loan financing is a better deal anyway, as bank conservatism for new car models is v conservative about residual value, but Teslas have always had strong residual value.
 Model 3 Performance order page progressively rolling out to reservation holders over the next week or so. It’s a really great car. Not saying that lightly. Test drive is a mindwarp. Aiming to have these as our first test drive Model 3 cars in stores within 4 to 6 week’s.
  Next year
_ziegel  Twitter is so dark …
 No … no …
 That is horrifying
 Indeed, the esthetics of cutlery are a source of great stress
Mason jars with a handle or wine stem cause me to lose faith in humanity
  The future
   Exactly!
 I was an alien 🛸👽♥️💫
 Usually, they don’t even realize it. All they know is that some PR agency is pushing a story that will get clicks. That is the true nature of the corruption. It is rare that US media knowingly writes a false story just for clicks, but they are often manipulated into doing so.
  Actually true!
  Singapore has enough land area to generate most of its electricity from the sun. Solar energy is more than most people realize. 250MW per sq km at current commercial efficiency solar panels. No more need to import fossil fuels for electricity, which is a strategic vulnerability.
 But don’t worry, cars have been tested for emissions levels &amp; everything’s just fine  
 Why have policies that promote a combustion vehicle fleet in a dense city environment? In bumper to bumper traffic, each car’s exhaust pipes releases poison gases right into the air intake of car behind. This is not healthy.
 The results speak for themselves. Singapore is a very prosperous city and yet has very few electric cars.
Glad you’re ok!  
Some details on the Tesla air filtration system  
_uk Mid 2019 for RHD
 That sounds like a fun adventure!
_uk You can just take the aero inserts out of the standard wheel &amp; it looks pretty cool. We could offer that as an option at purchase.
 Model 3 should be second best in world after Model S/X. Still super good, but we went a little 🥜 on S/X.
Filters bacteria, viruses, spores, pollen &amp; particulate of almost any kind  
   Model S &amp; X also have an acid gas filter, an alkaline gas filter &amp; a carbon monoxide detector that autoswitches car to recirc mode. We should prob tell people about this more. Filters are giant, so too big to fit in Model 3.
Cool, Tesla S/X have hospital operating room air quality when BWD mode is activated, so shd protect against even a weaponized virus  
  Do it
 Berliner Wurst hat am meisten Curry🔥
   Ich habe an der Universität ein Semester Deutsch studiert. Ich wünschte ich könnte es besser sprechen!
  Natürlich
 Definitely
Best analysis of Model 3 to date (German)  
Finders keepers 🚀🚀🚀  
  
 Hi ! 💕👻😅
  _g_fischer  Try adjusting tire pressure. Will ask Tesla engineering to investigate.
Hell of a week  
 Just for perspective  
   True, no one is perfect
   You’re most welcome. More to come in this regard.
  Tesla will always refute articles that are misleading &amp; point out if there is someone with a pattern of doing so. Many fit this description, but Consumer Reports is always fair &amp; accurate in their criticism.
  Ride comfort &amp; aero/road noise already better than CR car, which was early production. Wish we could make the car perfect from day 1, but there’s always room for improvement. Highly recommend dropping tire pressure 10% below max to ~39 psi for comfort. Only affects range by ~2%.
 _Pivac Prob 8.3
_Pivac Yes
All items below will go to all Model 3s within next few months with V8.2 software. To report a bug or ask for a feature, press voice button, say “bug report” followed by issue description.  
_d   “Pneumatic” means propelled by air. Opposite of Hyperloop.
 _g_fischer  Braking &amp; UI upgrades apply to all Model 3s. Improved windshield for aero noise &amp; suspension for ride comfort are major ops. Unless you’re really bothered by them, don’t replace. Best way to improve ride is drop tire pressure to ~39 psi. 45 psi is best range, but lower comfort.
_g_fischer  Yeah, absolutely
Really appreciate the high quality critical feedback from . Road noise &amp; ride comfort already addressed too. UI improvements coming via remote software update later this month.  
Like you guys too 🚘 🖤  
 Actually, Hyperloop draws a near vacuum in tube &amp; each pod is powered w electric motors. It is opposite of pneumatically powered.
 Would love to be in India. Some challenging government regulations, unfortunately. Deepak Ahuja, our CFO, is from India. Tesla will be there as soon as he believes we should.
 _schiff Good progress. Really proud of this design &amp; SpaceX propulsion team. This engine is something special.
_schiff Peace ✌️
 Love the space cowboy esthetic
 ♥️
At risk of stating the extremely obvious, I am against threats of violence &amp; abusive epithets in any forum. Please do not use them in my name or at all.
 You’re saying a BBC reporter who attacked me for months w unprofessional language &amp; ad hominem attacks, then deleted those tweets to hide them, is a “good person”?
   This journalist has been attacking me for months incl using genitalia language that she now says is sexist. What a hypocrite!  
     “Nano” is a unit of measure, not a field imo. Would’ve been sexist *not* to express an opinion simply because someone is a woman.
   Hello, have you met the Internet? Everyone gets harassed regardless of gender, especially if they say false things. Saying I’m against science is like saying Beyoncé doesn’t know beats. Blowback from latter (all genders) would make my comment stream seem like Socratic dialogue.
    Gaiman, did you actually read my tweets? I didn’t set anyone on anyone. A BBC science reporter tweeted that I was anti-science &amp; I said that was false. Are you saying I don’t have the right to deny false accusations? That’s messed up.
   You’ve done something incredibly dishonest by supporting a journo who falsely stated that I’m against science, then cherrypicked tweets that don’t represent the vast majority of my followers to make false claims against them too
 _a_massacre   _Mister  Great book. Read it when it came out.
 _a_massacre   _Mister  Exactly
 SpaceX has Area 58 at Cape Canaveral. That’s 7 better than 51.
 _Mister Yeah
 _Mister Second best answer to the Fermi Paradox after the simulation argument
 _Mister Which part? Love their cuisine. And the views are amazing.
 _Mister Yes
_Mister There are no aliens. Officially, at least …
 You have so many great pics &amp; factoids!
_Whitehead5 _Ryan   Yes, AWD P first and then AWD. Production costs are always high when line first gets going, so we have to sell higher price versions first or each car will have very negative margins. As production efficiency rises, we can make lower cost versions &amp; not lose money.
   I really want to make this cupholder
  A dream that wd prob be a nightmare in reality. Cup holder that auto adjusted for size &amp; stiffness of cup/bottle, maintained cold or hot temp &amp; dried off water condensation. Or I cd work on getting humanity to Mars. Tough choice.
 I’ve literally had dreams about cup holder designs
 Noted. We can prob adjust spring force &amp; catch to be less sensitive. Cupholders are amazingly hard to get right!
   You’re welcome. Appreciate the letter.
 Good school
    __    Had a great time with my kids
   __    Yes
 __    Seems to be glitch where tweet to which I replied isn’t showing up, removing context. A journo said polls are meaningless because controlled by “powerful people” &amp; my response was that powerful people also own media. Thus, if you discount polls, you should also discount media.  
 Thanks 😀
  2020
 Superchargers will ultimately cover the entire region
__     Pointing out to aspiring journo &amp; Rodin spokesmodel, Josh Top, who thinks public polls are controlled by “powerful people” that the media is *owned* by same. Anyone who thought this was anti-Semitic is just revealing their inner bigot. The context is very clear.
  Thanks for offering to help. I will check with my team.
 __    You’re right. These guys can buzzkill themselves (pun intended). Signing off …
 __    Who do you think *owns* the press? Hello.
__    You’re missing the point &amp; living in a bubble of self-righteous sanctimony. The public doesn’t trust you. This was true *before* the last election &amp; only got worse. Don’t believe me? Run your own poll …
__    You’re welcome to come by SpaceX, but please stop assuming I’m against all journalists. This is not true. Something needs to be done to improve public trust in media.
__    You really think I haven’t spent time in a newsroom? I’ve spent time in too many. Bleak.
  __  Sadly, it had better critical analysis than most non-cult media
 Yup, deleted
 _Ryan  ? It should
 _Ryan No, but dual motors mean increased regen braking &amp; will ride tire traction limit. You won’t notice sport brakes unless you’re on a racetrack &amp; have the sticky 20” tires.
_Ryan Also, firmware fix for upgraded brake performance on standard Model 3 started rolling out yesterday. Should improve braking distance by ~20 ft for repeated heavy braking events. Thanks  for excellent critical feedback!
_Ryan Yes, Model 3 Performance will have red calipers &amp; sport level brakes
_marchioni Keyword “future” 🤣
 ♥️🖤🚀🎶👻🐇🧚‍♀️💫
😃  
     Will do another rev before final design
 I was
     That’s what I had in mind
  Sometimes even I think we’re the same person!
     Nanotech *is* bs imo. When you take something that has nothing to do w gender &amp; make it about that, you devalue genuine gender issues.
 About to ship.  holding flamethrower pickup parties in a week or so, then deliveries begin. Check   for details.
_ It’s not
__Rodriguez That’s a great song!
Sometimes … when I have hurt feelings, I play this song …  
_pl  No, that’s the other guy 
  So true 😢
 Because Twitter is fun
  USAToday FTW!
 Dank is wack unless you’re on weed
  Exactly. And NYT could have anyone post an Op Ed. Why, of all people, are they choosing to publish this “non-journalist” who is also pro gasoline cars? Is this just published as counterpoint? I assume NYT does believe in climate change?
But femtotech is the future …  
Nanotech is so 2008. Picotech is 1000 times better.
Yeah, that’s exactly right. But after suggesting public critique, I was stunned to see the level of contempt many in media have for their readers. This is way worse than I thought.  
_______        The arguments journos are using against the public are word for word the same arguments despots use against democracy
Well said. NYT journo is outraged that “dumb” public wd dare critique him while attacking me for being sensitive to criticism. Uhh...  
     A Tesla has a usable reserve of 5 to 15 miles range even after the battery reads “empty”. This will not hurt the pack.
    Pretty good. TinTin A &amp; B are both closing the link to ground w phased array at high bandwidth, low latency (25 ms). Good enough to play fast response video games.
    It’s cool for kids &amp; if used in a fun way, but if you called yourself a “rocket scientist” in aerospace, they would think you’re 🙃
 I just sent a note to Tesla service to take care of your car right away &amp; our HVAC engineering lead to fix root cause
     Does the psych ward know you smuggled in a mobile phone?
      The pain will end
Wow, amazing Tesla hypermile drive happening  
     Gwynne has been prez of SpaceX for 10 years &amp; well-deserved  
     Stop trying to charm me. It won’t work. Ok, maybe a little 😊 Are you a real person or a bot?
   Using “rocket science” non-ironically in a bio is never a good sign, especially if you work on 🚀🔬
    What are you talking about? You’re being incredibly rude &amp; nonsensical.
  Wow, haven’t watched that video in ages. When we made that, no one in the space industry thought it would actually happen.
 Generally higher quality reporting, especially if not under pressure to publish fast. Consumer Reports is great (and often critical of Tesla). Heard good things about The Information too.
Can’t believe someone leaked this schematic of the Tesla production system!!  
 We tried, but Singapore govt is not supportive of electric vehicles
 Tesla will start extending the Supercharger network to South America around end of next year
 Prob end of next year
 Good point, we will add that to the construction plan
Global map of Tesla Superchargers, including those coming soon  
 Earth’s rotation is slowly, slowly, slowly getting slower
 You’re making my point. It’s tragic that there’s a national nano day. I wish I didn’t know that.
  All four. Zone 3 throughput was solved a couple of weeks ago.
   Model 3 was designed for min engineering &amp; tooling change for RHD. Note left/right symmetry. LHD for Europe &amp; Asia first half of next year. RHD probably middle of next year.
  This is the new production line for battery module Zone 4. Will play a key role in getting from 3000/week to 6000/week for Model 3.
 I have never attacked science. Definitely attacked misleading journalism like yours though.
_in_kiev   Pravda was incorporated a year ago. Also, Tesla factory safety has improved every year &amp; is now better than industry avg. Misleading articles refer to Tesla being worse than avg in 2015 when we were just figuring things out.
 Worth a shot
  Of course! (Prav)Duh. It is named after the most pernicious propaganda machine in history specifically to highlight what we want to avoid. It’s called “satire” …
  This is going to help journalism, not harm it. Please be so kind as to hold your fire until you actually see it.
Problem solved, was able to buy   Game on …
_kotushkin I know, I know. Russia seriously didn’t correct me on this!
 Something needs to be done to reward consistent, high quality journalism. Some in media are absurdly indignant before even seeing the product. Odd …
Turns out   is actually owned by Ukraine. For some reason, Russia didn’t bother to correct me …
 For some reason, Russia didn’t bother to correct me …
Tried to buy   but Russia said no. Turns out they already use it.
     Definitely did not. I’ve been through many press cycles &amp; know full well same person praising me today will trash me tomorrow. Journos hound me constantly for interviews, but I do almost none these days. ♥️ Twitter as it allows me to bypass journo bs.
    I’ve just had it with sanctimonious journalists who appoint themselves protectors of the public interest &amp; yet believe that same public is too stupid &amp; immoral to assess their credibility. It’s amazing that you don’t understand how insufferably hypocritical that is. Wow.
   The Tesla facility is open plan &amp; we’re not going to erect walls everywhere for a journo tour. I know journalists too well &amp; they are some of the worst &amp; best human beings I’ve ever met. You’re the former.
   No
  Nano applies to everything &amp; therefore means nothing. Definitely indicates bs. Sorry.  
  Yes, because Tesla has the most advanced battery manufacturing technology in the world &amp; products that haven’t been unveiled yet. You don’t have a right to show that to our competitors or spoil future product launches.
 Wow, you’re ignorant. Don’t remember you, but disclosing classified US missile technology to hostile nations would violate ITAR law &amp; land you in jail. I didn’t review it, but my team did. Obviously nobody cared about what your article said. Please.
   Done
 Have a confirmed real name identity section &amp; an unconfirmed identity section. Latter with subscore that excludes probable botnets.
_1 Be careful what you wish for  
Amazingly, the “media is awesome” vote is declining, despite hundreds of articles attacking this very poll🤔
My point exactly  
 Ahem, you have “nano” in your bio. That is 100% synonymous with bs.
 Reddit is great
Come on media, you can do it! Get more people to vote for you. You are literally the media.
        Exactly. The point of such a site would be to help restore the credibility of the media. They don’t realize how little credibility they actually have with the public.
      Why are certain journalists (editors especially) so concerned about the public rating their credibility? All they do all day is rate others, ostensibly on behalf of the same public for which they have contempt.
     I did to any who asked
     That was obvious from a mile away. I tried to use their product &amp; it didn’t work. Not exactly a genius move by WSJ, but they were brave enough to say it.
_Ryan   Maybe after you get your Model 3, we can talk about what you like &amp; what needs to be improved
_Ryan  But consider it real. We could unveil Model Y anytime from late this year to mid next year, so March 15 is about right.
_Ryan  I just made that up, because the Ides of March sounded good
   Gasoline or diesel?
  What car do you drive?
 March 15
 The media
 Hi Kara! I’m open to it. Right now, I’m cranking super hard at the Tesla factory, so it depends on how things are going next week.
Maybe the media credibility rating site should be called “You’re Right!”  I do actually own   but for the moment I just have it automatically forward to Facebook News.
  Definitely
 There no good car emojis. I mean seriously, what the heck are these 🚗 🚙 and this is the best one 🚘
 Yo
 That’s the basic idea
For some reason, this is the best I’ve felt in a while. Hope you’re feeling good too 🚀♥️🌏
 I just tried to donate, but you don’t accept PayPal. Lmk when you do.
 Um, you just tweeted about this, so obv you do
 Thank you! I thought it was so obvious …
   Exactly. UAW does not have individual stock ownership as part of the compensation at any other company.
 Yeah, I think you do great work
If you’re in media &amp; don’t want Pravda to exist, write an article telling your readers to vote against it …
 🤗
 I’ve never stopped a union vote nor removed a union. UAW abandoned this factory. Tesla arrived &amp; gave people back their jobs. They haven’t forgotten UAW betrayed them. That’s why UAW can’t even get people to attend a free BBQ, let alone enough sigs for a vote.
 Of course
  It is strange that big auto companies literally have thousands more factory injuries than Tesla &amp; millions more auto deaths, but somehow get less coverage. We are not perfect, but we’re doing our best to make clean energy real &amp; be a good company.
  No, they’re just some rich kids in Berkeley who took their political science prof too seriously
 Will do
Create a media credibility rating site (that also flags propaganda botnets)
_io That’s why editors are included too
 We don’t. The media is reporting someone else saying that Tesla advertised. It is untrue.
Even if some of the public doesn’t care about the credibility score, the journalists, editors &amp; publications will. It is how they define themselves.
 Enough of the public does care about the truth. I have faith in the people.
 Maybe some good people from those orgs who would join
 Not only needs to be botproof, but seek &amp; unmask anyone operating a disinformation bot army
 Exactly
Going to create a site where the public can rate the core truth of any article &amp; track the credibility score over time of each journalist, editor &amp; publication. Thinking of calling it Pravda …
  An exception that proves the rule
 Uh, this is Twitter. How many characters do you want?
Problem is journos are under constant pressure to get max clicks &amp; earn advertising dollars or get fired. Tricky situation, as Tesla doesn’t advertise, but fossil fuel companies &amp; gas/diesel car companies are among world’s biggest advertisers.
 The media has earned this mistrust. But maybe there is a solution.
 Oh hey another sanctimonious media person who thinks he’s above criticism. Try being truthful &amp; the public will believe you again.
 Thought you’d say that. Anytime anyone criticizes the media, the media shrieks “You’re just like Trump!” Why do you think he got elected in the first place? Because no ones believes you any more. You lost your credibility a long time ago.
The holier-than-thou hypocrisy of big media companies who lay claim to the truth, but publish only enough to sugarcoat the lie, is why the public no longer respects them  
   This will sound super obvious, but Genesis &amp; Oblivion
  I am not cool
  The one about to come out called So Heavy i fell through the earth
 Was sad to see G getting tons of undeserved flak because of me, so I’m glad there’s some good too ♥️🎼🐇. Her music is incredible.
 Thanks. Not super fun right now 😔
  Busted 👻
      None of those criteria are certain by themselves, but when taken together &amp; messages have an obv agenda, it almost always indicates use of a network of self-validating troll accounts
     Troll dead giveaways: not using real names, obv fake pics &amp; backgrounds, low follower/follow ratio, account recently created, repeating same phrases, etc (sigh)
 Great idea!
     Will do it later this year. Too much on plate right now. Will be available as an upgrade from service.
 Love original Deus Ex! That would be awesome.
    Interesting he stops at ‘09. That’s when you drove GM &amp; Chrysler into bankruptcy &amp; lost tens of thousands of jobs for people that counted on you.
 Just order your car with the James Bond option package. It’s an off-menu item for those in the know 😉
    But ya know what, let’s test that theory. Maybe we do want UAW back, even tho UAW betrayed us 8 years ago &amp; left us here to rot. Maybe we want UAW back even tho injury rate today is 1/2 what it was with them &amp; wages were lower. Maybe. Let’s hold a vote &amp; find out.
   In theory true, but not how UAW behaved. They drove GM &amp; Chrysler to bankruptcy &amp; lost 200,000+ jobs for people they were supposed to protect, incl abandoning NUMMI plant workers.Tesla took over &amp; now it has 10k+ jobs.UAW destroyed once great US auto industry &amp; everyone knows it.
We’re going to include some fun games as hidden Easter eggs in Tesla S, X &amp; 3. What do you think would be most fun in a car using the center touch screen?
 Good point
    No, UAW does that. They want divisiveness &amp; enforcement of 2 class “lords &amp; commoners” system. That sucks. US fought War of Independence to get *rid* of a 2 class system! Managers &amp; workers shd be equal w easy movement either way. Managing sucks btw. Hate doing it so much.
    More “Reveal” bs. Tesla is overseen by Cal/OSHA, most stringent labor safety org in US, &amp; they’ve never found us to misrepresent. On other hand, Ford, Chrysler &amp; GM (UAW) have repeatedly been found to fake safety numbers. Strangely, that info is missing from Reveal article …
      No problem
      They are incorrect. We never met, nor have we ever been scheduled to meet.
_Ryan  Thanks again, have conveyed your words to the Tesla team, who have been working crazy hard. Really energizing!
      I didn’t meet with him
 I definitely don’t do this 5 minute thing. Need to have long uninterrupted times to think. Can’t be creative otherwise.
Just wanted to say thanks to all Tesla supporters. I damn well love you.
    Have been meaning to get around to talking to him. Some of his criticisms are valid, but, on the higher body/chassis weight front, he wasn’t fully appreciating that we were going for much higher crash safety levels than other cars.
_Ryan  Thanks Ryan. Critical feedback after you get the car would be much appreciated, no matter how nuanced.
   To be clear, all Model 3 cars, incl early production will have same great braking ability. Nature of any product, however, is that if you care about perfection, you make constant small refinements. Today’s Model S is far more refined than initial production.
   ABS calibration algorithm
  Also, Consumer Reports has an early production car. Model 3 now has improved ride comfort, lower wind noise &amp; many other small improvements. Will request that they test current production.
  Looks like this can be fixed with a firmware update. Will be rolling that out in a few days. With further refinement, we can improve braking distance beyond initial specs. Tesla won’t stop until Model 3 has better braking than any remotely comparable car.
 _Ryan  Stop, you’re making me blush ☺️
_Ryan  Also, not promising anything, but we *might* be able to increase Model 3 Performance power output a little
_Ryan  Complexity is the devil. Words can’t express how hard we are working on the Model 3 production ramp &amp; trying to get to profitability. But we’ll try.
   Good point. Yeah, we will do that for the bigger locations.
 The CR braking result is inconsistent with other reviewers, but might indicate that some Model 3’s have longer braking distances than others. If so, we will address this at our expense. First time we’ve seen anything like this.
  Even if a physical upgrade is needed to existing fleet, we will make sure all Model 3’s having amazing braking ability at no expense to customers
  Very strange. Model 3 is designed to have super good stopping distance &amp; others reviewers have confirmed this. If there is vehicle variability, we will figure it out &amp; address. May just be a question of firmware tuning, in which case can be solved by an OTA software update.
    _Letson Cool, we can do the interview at Tesla in front of the yellow barriers &amp; beeping forklifts you said didn’t exist. Please send your meeting request to wakassliar.com.
    Gwynne’s awesome. Been SpaceX prez for 10 years. Super love working with her.
    ♥️🦄
   Also, UAW did nada for job security in last recession. Dropped Fremont like a hot potato to protect their core base in Detroit. UAW *chose* to exit this plant before Tesla even arrived. We had nothing to do with UAW leaving, but everything to do with why people here have jobs.
   Nothing stopping Tesla team at our car plant from voting union. Could do so tmrw if they wanted. But why pay union dues &amp; give up stock options for nothing? Our safety record is 2X better than when plant was UAW &amp; everybody already gets healthcare.
   Tesla factory literally has miles of painted yellow lines &amp; tape. Report about forklifts not beeping is also bs. These are both demonstrably false, but were reported as “facts” by Reveal.
 We’re working on allowing you to use your phone in car when you hear a rattle/squeak &amp; pinpoint origin by acoustic signature &amp; triangulation
SpaceX Crew Dragon ship in anechoic chamber for EMI testing before being sent to  Plum Brook vacuum chamber  
  For sure before snowfall this year
_remick  _ivaylo It can tow far more than rated capacity
 _ivaylo Exactly! Will probably unveil next gen Supercharger late summer. Major improvements all round.
_ivaylo With production, 1st you need achieve target rate &amp; then smooth out flow to achieve target cost. Shipping min cost Model 3 right away wd cause Tesla to lose money &amp; die. Need 3 to 6 months after 5k/wk to ship $35k Tesla &amp; live.
    That means nothing. Literally your Mom could file for NLRB.
   Exactly 🚀💫🎉! That will be really fun &amp; shed light on what’s happening. Hoping to start that later this year after we become profitable. Difficult to justify before then.
   Yeah, “Reveal” was carefully constructed propaganda with a name that wd make Orwell proud. Workplace injury rate of our factory when it was UAW w Toyota/GM was twice as high as today’s non-union.
   About 2% of Tesla, incl salaried &amp; hourly, union &amp; non-union were let go in annual review. Only known union person fired was a guy who repeatedly threatened non-union supporters verbally &amp; on social media &amp; lied about it.
_S Yes
    Exactly
   They can form a union whenever they want &amp; there’s nothing I can do to stop them. California is a very pro-union state. They just don’t want to.
 Upgrade to the latest S. Nothing will give you greater joy. It’s like being able to have dopamine jacked straight into your brain at will.
_Soto They are correct. It’s awesome. Second best driving feel of any car in the world imo, apart from Model S. Traction control precision is super tight.
 It does so constantly, but so smoothly that you can’t tell
  Depends on when you placed your initial reservation. We start delivering the dual motor Model 3 in July.
_Soto Three or four months, depending on demand level. We have enough for about 1000/week right now.
 Good idea ...
 That is true. Electric motors are far more reliable than combustion engines. You need an electric motor just to start a gas engine!
Tesla dual motor means there is a motor in front &amp; a motor in rear. One is optimized for power &amp; one for range. Car drives fine even if a motor breaks down. Helps ensure you make it to your destination &amp; don’t get stuck on side of road in potentially unsafe conditions.
Cost of normal dual motor AWD option is $5k. Range is also 310 miles. Takes 0-60mph to 4.5 sec &amp; top speed to 140 mph.
 Black &amp; white interior available only for Model 3 Performance initially due to limited parts availability. Will broaden over time.
Tesla AWD is dual motor, so you can fully drive the car even if one breaks
Cost of all options, wheels, paint, etc  is included (apart from Autopilot). Cost is $78k. About same as BMW M3, but 15% quicker &amp; with better handling. Will beat anything in its class on the track.
Tesla dual motor, all-wheel drive performance Model 3: 3.5 sec  0-60mph  155 mph Top Speed 310 mile Range
_qasc It’s only slightly more expensive to Tesla (same price to car owners), but owner happiness is way higher, so worth doing
 Exactly
Will soon enable Tesla owners to request service from their phone with a few taps. Tesla Ranger will come to you to take care of your car. No need to bring the car in yourself &amp; zero paperwork.
    _golf I’m about to test the configurator &amp; then it goes out to early reservation holders tonight
 You can tweet to Tesla, me and/or get something upvoted in message boards
   _golf That is the way to go. Thanks for buying our cars!
_Ryan Also, carbon fiber spoiler, 20” Performance wheels, black &amp; white interior.
_Ryan AC induction front &amp; switched reluctance, partial permanent magnet rear. Silicon Carbide inverters in both. Performance drive units are lot sorted for highest sigma output &amp; get double the burn-in.
Working on Model 3 dual motor all-wheel drive &amp; performance versions. Driving feel is amazing. Aiming to release config late tonight.
 Check out   Build-your-own life size Egyptian pantheon merch coming soon.
But The Boring Company is right behind you at 1/15th your speed &amp; soon will be 1/10th! Start sweating …
He taunts us with his speed
 Just … an ordinary snail
His name is Gary &amp; he’s a snail
🐌
Skip forward to see the most boring presentation ever  
Excited for  partnership with LA Metro  
lol  
Listening to REALiTi
 Yeah, there are thousands of Supercharger locations going through permitting/construction, including that area. Will publish an updated map in the next few days.
_Castillo Yes
Will be presenting &amp; taking questions  about The Boring Company plans for Los Angeles at 7pm on Thursday
Boring Company Hyperloop will take you from city center under ground &amp; ocean to spaceport in 10 to 15 mins  
 Time will tell, but so far it appears so
 It certainly needs to be better &amp; we work to improve it every day, but perfect is enemy of good. A system that, on balance, saves lives &amp; reduces injuries should be released.
What’s actually amazing about this accident is that a Model S hit a fire truck at 60mph and the driver only broke an ankle. An impact at that speed usually results in severe injury or death.
It’s super messed up that a Tesla crash resulting in a broken ankle is front page news and the ~40,000 people who died in US auto accidents alone in past year get almost no coverage  
    Yes
   According to NHTSA, there was an automotive fatality every 86M miles in 2017 (~40,000 deaths). Tesla was every 320M miles. It’s not possible to be zero, but probability of fatality is much lower in a Tesla. We will be reporting updated safety numbers after each quarter.
  This is false. Eyetracking rejected for being ineffective, not for cost. WSJ fails to mention that Tesla is safest car on road, which would make article ridiculous. Approx 4X better than avg.
 Happy Mother’s Day Mom! Love you so much.
 Fair criticism, but we’re fixing it fast. Hackathon going on right now to fix 2 worst robot production chokepoints. Looks promising.
Lovely story  
_ogun  If someone is trying to control us through complicated sky patterns, they must really care. I would gladly obey their instructions, but I can’t figure them out.
 SpaceX will prob build 30 to 40 rocket cores for ~300 missions over 5 years. Then BFR takes over &amp; Falcon retires. Goal of BFR is to enable anyone to move to moon, Mars &amp; eventually outer planets.
Good piece by Ars  
 Rate at which things are getting more bizarre appears to be increasing
  Exactly. Gasoline cars will be like steam engines — quaint, but not something you’d actually use to get around. Btw, I like steam engines &amp; trains in general.
 Yeah, I heard this so many times. In the future, it will seem bizarre that we used to crash rockets into the ocean instead of reusing them.
 Yo
 Will make that a setting
 Fossil fuels subsidized at $10 million a minute, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week  
 No use arguing with chimp. You’re blocked.
 That article was pushed as propaganda to counter IMF study showing fossil fuel subsidies to be $5 trillion/year. Even if $4.9B was true, combined market cap of Tesla &amp; SpaceX is $80B. Where did the other $75B come from? Ass 🎩 …
_cap  I have publicly asked people (like you) not to invest. Go fund Ford or whatever  …
Launching in ~4 mins  
_Ryan  AWD &amp; white interior in July. Air suspension prob later. Note, that’s when we *start* making them. Can’t instantly fill all orders. Will take 6+ months to do so.
 Our giant auto co competitors have much greater access to incentives than Tesla, which means Tesla has prospered in spite of govt subsidies, not because of them. Tesla mkt cap has *risen* over time as EV incentives declined. How strange …
 _Ryan I love it too, but trying to keep config simple so as not to blow up the production ramp
_Ryan Tesla will enable orders end of next week for dual motor AWD &amp; performance. Starting production of those in July. Air suspension prob next year.
 A cool thing about the design is that’s easy to incorporate branch loops to serve small to mid size cities without slowing down the main loop at all
 Already started DC to NY route.  Hopefully start LA to SF next year. That will be true  w pressurized pods in near vacuum tunnels &amp; faster than jetliner.
First Boring Company tunnel under LA almost done! Pending final…  
 Towards end of next year. Btw, planning to launch Tesla in Turkey later this year. Love your country &amp; will be there in person for the launch.
  This will work on entire S &amp; X fleet, even first production units. Cool thing about software upgrades is that we can keep making your car better long after you bought it.
 All X &amp; S will soon work with no key if your phone pairs w Bluetooth, signal strength is high &amp; you enable feature
 Yeah, we will add that as a feature
_moise     !! Unnecessary characters. Will change.
    I wrote that masterpiece myself in HTML 1.0
   Wow, thanks for the couch! I will match the donation from my foundation.
  My a capella cover of Amish Paradise is irresistible  
Tesla quarterly all-hands video. Love the shot of wild horses &amp; Giga in winter  
 So rococo
 Definitely not a logo of any kind
  Stole it
  We sketched concept together &amp; worked w a trusted team to make it
 Glass corset hand-painted in perspective in color of bone. Every detail tells a story. Spiked choker machined from a single piece of forged metal. Crown of Vantablack.
  Hi Danielle!
 Don’t want to blow your mind, but I’m pretty weird. It’s time the world knew.
Night at the museum. G has mad skillzsz. Me not so much.  
 _rar   Literally every word is untrue
 That’s a white rose on my jacket &amp; the choker is a bunch of spikes, not Tesla anything
  This chart shows how crazy low payout is to labels &amp; the artists only a small fraction of these numbers  
  Prob iTunes, but whatever works 4u is fine. Most people don’t buy music &amp; artist earnings from streaming are tiny. Mostly about touring.  
 Flesh without Blood &amp; Kill V Maim on Art Angels album  
 Love Powerglide too   
   Yes
  

Rococo basilisk
 The Boring Company will be using dirt from tunnel digging to create bricks for low cost housing
 (Sigh) I do like Ty, but she’s a friend. We are not dating.
Saying you like “moats” is just a nice way of saying you like oligopolies
Warren Buffett is huge in candy. It’s actually true.  
I’m killin me lol
 lol
 Hi Sarah
Then I’m going to build a moat &amp; fill it w candy. Warren B will not be able to resist investing! Berkshire Hathaway kryptonite …
Cryptocandy
Ok ok, just for sake of argument, what do u wish for in candy? 🍭
 What do you think we’re living in?
It just occurred to me that the plot of Willy Wonka is really messed up
I am super super serious
I’m starting a candy company &amp; it’s going to be amazing
  
 This will be bigger
 I try so hard to help them …
  Thanks for letting me know. Will expedite. Sorry for the delay.
Looks like sooner than expected. The sheer magnitude of short carnage will be unreal. If you’re short, I suggest tiptoeing quietly to the exit …  
 New Roadster will have that
 Yes, definitely not
 It will be next level. These are really big numbers.
Oh and uh short burn of the century comin soon. Flamethrowers should arrive just in time.
_calico  Yup
  True. And once they were on the call, I should have answered their questions live. It was foolish of me to ignore them.
 We went through the same drama on S &amp; X and almost all confirmed in the end. Will likely be even better for Model 3, as customer satisfaction score post delivery is higher. I worry zero about demand. Just spent all night in the factory, not the showroom.
Reason RBC question about Model 3 demand is absurd is that Tesla has roughly half a million reservations, despite no advertising &amp; no cars in showrooms. Even after reaching 5k/week production, it would take 2 years just to satisfy existing demand even if new sales dropped to 0.
The reason the Bernstein question about CapEx was boneheaded was that it had already been answered in the headline of the Q1 newsletter he received beforehand, along with details in the body of the letter
The 2 questioners I ignored on the Q1 call are sell-side analysts who represent a short seller thesis, not investors
 Exactly
First, it’s important to know that Tesla is the most shorted (meaning most bet against) stock on the market &amp; has been for a while  
Please ignore this thread unless you’re interested in a tedious discussion about Tesla stock
_Invest   They were neither valid nor pertinent. I will explain why on a primary Twitter thread.
   Yeah, news is actually super good. Model S &amp; X are producing major positive cash flow &amp; Model 3 is about to do same.
  To be clear, I’m a big fan of MKBHD, but this is an important clarification
  The “dry” questions were not asked by investors, but rather by two sell-side analysts who were trying to justify their Tesla short thesis. They are actually on the *opposite* side of investors. HyperChange represented actual investors, so I switched to them.
You’re most welcome  
 Your numbers are incorrect. Tesla Fremont is 3rd in world after a 🇳🇱🌸 place &amp; 🇦🇪 mall. Giga will be largest when complete.  
Woke Frisbee  
La la la  
 SpaceX Crew Dragon ships to the Cape in about 3 months
  🖤 Ars Technica 🖤
Falcon 9 fairing opens its parafoil after reentering the atmosphere  
  Ok
 That’s how I use my eyebrows too
I have prehensile eyebrows
  😉
 Yeah, most people don’t know this, but comets r mostly made of cocaine
 Almost ready to test the new Boring Company / SpaceX hyperpod prototype. Exciting video guaranteed.
  
 Don’t make me use my space lasers …
 I know … such an underserved market
Oh btw I’m building a cyborg dragon
  Sounds great riding my cyborg 🐉
 Likewise … was just listening to Go Flex &amp; Psycho on  playlist
 Mostly not
Tesla batteries are currently live &amp; delivering power at 662 locations in Puerto Rico. Team is working 24/7 to activate several hundred more.  
  Russia has great rocket technology &amp; talent. Much respect. Would encourage focus on reusability. Single-use rockets cannot be competitive any more than single-use aircraft.
 Doing our best



Now  
Driving a Model 3 and playing  
   Yeah, exactly! Would be great to hear your thoughts. We’re going to try a few approaches. Can def be done, just about minimizing mass.
  We already do targeted retro burn to a specific point in Pacific w no islands or ships, so upper stage doesn’t become a dead satellite. Need to retarget closer to shore &amp; position catcher ship like Mr Steven.
And then land on a bouncy house
 Yeah, but great for creating a giant object that retains its shape across all Mach regimes &amp; drops ballistic coefficient by 2 orders of magnitude
SpaceX will try to bring rocket upper stage back from orbital velocity using a giant party balloon
This is gonna sound crazy, but …
Interview and Tesla factory tour with Gayle King  
_id    
_id  Too wasted to remember
 Don’t want to brag or anything, but that happens to me sometimes …
 Yes, excessive automation at Tesla was a mistake. To be precise, my mistake. Humans are underrated.
 The Economist used to be boring, but smart with a wicked dry wit. Now it’s just boring (sigh). Tesla will be profitable &amp; cash flow+ in Q3 &amp; Q4, so obv no need to raise money.
  Sorry, demand has been higher than expected. Making them as fast as possible, but waitlist is 3 to 6 months.
  Looking into it. This is bizarre.
   _firth Maybe a little 😉
  _firth Gwynne’s got it covered. She’s awesome.
  _firth I love trolls
 _firth Norway has some really cool tunnels and bridges
    Should be fully fixed within the next few days
  Place your bets …
 This is a very important action by China. Avoiding a trade war will benefit all countries.
  How many views?
SpaceX main body tool for the BFR interplanetary spaceship  
Free viewing ends in about 5 hours  
    Definitely. Will take corrective action immediately. Sorry about this.
   Looking into it now
  Should just be due to your config not avail yet. If not lmk.
   Similar timing
  So probably July
  We need to achieve 5k/week with Model 3 before adding complexity that would inhibit production ramp
This is kinda nutty for such a short distance, so could easily end up being shredded metal, but exciting either way
Upgraded SpaceX/Tesla Hyperloop pod speed test soon. Will try to reach half speed of sound (and brake) within ~1.2km.
  Model 3 is the whole point. We only made the more expensive cars in order to make the mass-market car. We lacked the economies of scale and expertise to make it until now.
 The cat videos are awesome 🐱
 at 5M views after 36 hours. Congrats to Chris Paine &amp; co!
 Exactly
“You are my creator, but I am your master” — Mary Shelley
In memory of Stephen Hawking
Nothing will affect the future of humanity more than digital super-intelligence. Watch Chris Paine’s new AI movie for free until Sunday night at  
Chris Paine AI movie premiering tonight  
  We will add a feature to allow request of latest software version
 This is false
 Oh, it’s on …
Most people don’t know there’s a whole box of Easter eggs with every Tesla. Just tap logo on center screen &amp; wait. Easy access to most of discovered ones. More coming …
 Uhh, hello, I need to build cars
 About a year ago, I asked Doug to manage both engineering &amp; production. He agreed that Tesla needed eng &amp; prod better aligned, so we don’t design cars that are crazy hard to build. Right now, tho, better to divide &amp; conquer, so I’m back to sleeping at factory. Car biz is hell …
 Can’t believe you’re even writing about this. My job as CEO is to focus on what’s most critical, which is currently Model 3 production. Doug, who I regard as one of the world’s most talented engineering execs, is focused on vehicle engineering.
    We release as soon as we have the data. Good timeline, bad timing. Doesn’t matter.
   Not criticizing, just as asking questions. I’m sure there’s a really great answer …
 Tesla policy is to issue a recall *before* there are injuries. This is absolutely the right thing to do. Yet there were dozens of recalls by other car companies last month, incl w injuries &amp; deaths, but you only wrote an article about Tesla. Why so?
  Seriously! Obviously, I’m not going to do an April Fool’s joke about going bankwupt if I thought there was any chance it would actually happen (sigh).
 Lot of respect for NTSB, but NHTSA regulates cars, not NTSB, which is an advisory body. Tesla releases critical crash data affecting public safety immediately &amp; always will. To do otherwise would be unsafe.
   Oh yeah, forgot to mention it actually landed fine, just not on Mr Steven  
 What about this?  
@_iitzBrendon Elon University is a real place
 Coming soon to Tesla merch. Free shots in stores every April 1st.
 As you wish
 It’s the best
Elon was found passed out against a Tesla Model 3, surrounded by "Teslaquilla" bottles, the tracks of dried tears still visible on his cheeks.   This is not a forward-looking statement, because, obviously, what's the point?  Happy New Month!  
There are many chapters of bankruptcy and, as critics so rightly pointed out, Tesla has them *all*, including Chapter 14 and a half (the worst one).
Tesla Goes Bankrupt Palo Alto, California, April 1, 2018 -- Despite intense efforts to raise money, including a last-ditch mass sale of Easter Eggs, we are sad to report that Tesla has gone completely and totally bankrupt. So bankrupt, you can't believe it.
Important news in a few hours …
Love seeing the scars of the rocket  
 Hopefully, actual video coming soon. Aiming to improve the link quality so it can be real-time.
 Everything’s better with fire
Best music video art I’ve seen in a while  
 Tru drat
GPS guided parafoil twisted, so fairing impacted water at high speed. Air wake from fairing messing w parafoil steering. Doing helo drop tests in next few weeks to solve.
Mr Steven is 5 mins away from being under the falling fairing (don’t have live video)
Attempting recovery of fairing falling down from space (right now) with our boat, Mr Steven. It’s a giant steel &amp; webbing catcher’s mitt superstructure on a high-speed ocean ship. Godspeed, Mr. S …
House party for the autonomous anarcho-syndicalist commune!! —— Peasant Woman: Well, how'd you…  
      _Combat  Yes. I forgot my sword.
      _Combat  Dueling Dwarf Vader while dressed as a knight and using a parasol for a sword
Turns out joking about being a “rock” star because of digging tunnels (through, uh, rock — hello??) is deeply underappreciated
 Yes, you can upgrade hardware, although we also wrote software to accelerate rendering on old MCU. Coming out soon &amp; makes a big diff.
From my Mom: every time I use irony, I lose a friend
And they said I’d never be a rock star …
   Yes
  Uhh, it’s literally made of rock
 Yeah, the boring bricks are interlocking with a precise surface finish, so two people could build the outer walls of a small house in a day or so
 Prob May
 Guaranteed to be Flamethrower-proof!
First kit set will be ancient Egypt — pyramids, Sphinx, temple of Horus, etc
New Boring Company merch coming soon. Lifesize LEGO-like interlocking bricks made from tunneling rock that you can use to create sculptures &amp; buildings. Rated for California seismic loads, so super strong, but bored in the middle, like an aircraft wing spar, so not heavy.
 New nav starts rolling out this weekend. Should be considered a mature beta at first, so won’t be perfect, but will improve rapidly. With the old system, we were stuck with legacy 3rd party black box code and stale data. No way to improve.

  Shocker
 It’s not a political statement and I didn’t do this because someone dared me to do it. Just don’t like Facebook. Gives me the willies. Sorry.
 I have just asked our team to slow down deliveries. It is clear that we are exceeding the local logistics capacity due to batch build and delivery. Customer happiness &amp; safety matter more than a few extra cars this quarter.
   You’ll live
  We’ve never advertised with FB. None of my companies buy advertising or pay famous people to fake endorse. Product lives or dies on its own merits.
   Instagram’s probably ok imo, so long as it stays fairly independent. I don’t use FB &amp; never have, so don’t think I’m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow. Also, we don’t advertise or pay for endorsements, so … don’t care.
 Ok
 What, a troll, me!? How dare you, sir!
 Yeah, my fault for being an idiot. We did give them a free launch to make up for it and I think they had some insurance.
_M    Definitely. Looks lame anyway.
  First time I’ve seen either. One on the left looks official. Will be gone soon.
  Maybe that word doesn’t mean what I think it does
   Literally never seen it even once
 Yeah, it’s borderline. FB influence is slowly creeping in.
  I didn’t realize there was one. Will do.
  Inconceivable! Who’d say a thing like that!?
 What’s Facebook?
 Wow, a whole week. Risky ...
 Umm...yes
 Yes
 I double-dare them to come back! Bring it ...
No technology is too advanced for The Boring Company!  
_Garver  That said, Lori deserves a lot of credit for supporting competitive, commercial space launch while under massive assault from old-school monopolists
_sanes No real surface is perfect, but it did pull about 250,000 lbs of muck rail cars out of a tunnel  
 Probably mid next year before we are able to make RHD. Wish it could be sooner. Maybe try a Model S, used or new in the meantime? Used S is better than a new 3 imo, unless you want a smaller car.
 Sorry 🤗
Model X pulls a 95,000 lb (15,000 above US road legal limit) semi truck on a pure snow surface  
 Thanks!
_ch Sounds like this canton has style!
 Ok
 You’re welcome. Sorry for the delay. Only just got back from Gigafactory. Will be at our Fremont factory in the morning. Tesla team is going all out.
Better to be in the Model X  
The Swiss police are smart. Electricity vs diesel &amp; maintenance more than make up for purchase price diff. Plus, the bad guys will def not escape. That’s worth a lot …  
Maybe there should be 2 providers for Chicago advanced transit. Monopolies are so boring ...  
Petra and Mars  
_Garver  Lori, this is ridiculous. Creating a rocket company has to be one of the dumbest and hardest ways to “make money”. If it was about money, I’d just do another Internet company.
   This is completely false. Never even heard of Cortica. Just taking my kids on a Spring Break trip to see ancient historical sites in Israel &amp; Jordan.
Paid respects to Masada earlier today. Live free or die.  
Learning how to pour flaming absinthe over a tower of glasses in a Jerusalem speakeasy.…  
  Thanks for your support over all those years!
 Your cruel taunts cut me deep. Deep. But, I love you too.
 Oh you guys ...
 Yeah. I find it soothing.
 Yes
 Good point
That’s the name of my new intergalactic media empire, exclamation point optional
  Resist
 Thinkularity
Thud!
_wsoff Great idea!
My brother, Jonah and I are going to do a cover of My Little Buttercup from The Three Amigos. It will be terrible. There will also be a plethora of Q and sometimes even A.  
On the Westworld set with my bro   
Why Falcon Heavy &amp; Starman?  Life cannot just be about solving one sad problem after another. There need to be things that inspire you, that make you glad to wake up in the morning and be part of humanity. That is why we did it. We did for you.    
 Doesn’t make any sense. You can’t “take things that fail” &amp; make them work without creativity &amp; invention.
 No, it’s not
 None of the above
Tunnels
 Because blue
 I guess you could say it’s a 150 mph, underground, autonomous, electric bus that automatically switches between tunnels and lifts. So, yes, a bus.
Better video coming soon, but it would look a bit like this:  
Boring Co urban loop system would have 1000’s of small stations the size of a single parking space that take you very close to your destination &amp; blend seamlessly into the fabric of a city, rather than a small number of big stations like a subway
 Definitely
Will still transport cars, but only after all personalized mass transit needs are met. It’s a matter of courtesy &amp; fairness. If someone can’t afford a car, they should go first.
Adjusting The Boring Company plan: all tunnels &amp; Hyperloop will prioritize pedestrians &amp; cyclists over cars
 Heavy sigh
_juice Talulah is in England, finishing her second novel. It’s about a future matriarchal society, with a twist.
Will be at SXSW Sat/Sun with Jonah &amp; Lisa, who created Westworld. Jonah made an incredible short reel of Falcon Heavy &amp; Starman. Releases tmrw aft.
 To be clear, I think a fair outcome for all is quite likely. China has already shown a willingness to open their markets and I believe they will do the right thing.
 We raised this with the prior administration and nothing happened. Just want a fair outcome, ideally where tariffs/rules are equally moderate. Nothing more. Hope this does not seem unreasonable.
 I am against import duties in general, but the current rules make things very difficult. It’s like competing in an Olympic race wearing lead shoes.
 Also, no US auto company is allowed to own even 50% of their own factory in China, but there are five 100% China-owned EV auto companies in the US
 For example, an American car going to China pays 25% import duty, but a  Chinese car coming to the US only pays 2.5%, a tenfold difference
 Do you think the US &amp; China should have equal &amp; fair rules for cars? Meaning, same import duties, ownership constraints &amp; other factors.


 Every time Alexa laughs, an angel dies, so thank goodness …
 Depends on what you mean by “doom”
First production cargo trip of the Tesla Semi heavy duty truck, carrying battery packs from the…  
  Will have Model X do a cover of Happy Birthday by Marilyn Monroe  
 Literally, if you type “jazz hands”, iOS shows this emoji 🤗
I just realized there is a jazz hands emoji 🤗
 If there is anyone in the third row, turn off air recirculation. Third row cooling happens by air entering from the front and exiting through the vents in the rear bumper.
 Very proud of the SpaceX team! Can’t believe it’s been fifty Falcon 9 launches already. Just ten years ago, we couldn’t even reach orbit with little Falcon 1.
Falcon 9 flight 50 launches tonight, carrying Hispasat for Spain. At 6 metric tons and almost the size of a city bus, it will be the largest geostationary satellite we’ve ever flown.
 Very sensible summary of supersonic flight. Obvious answer is to fly high, which gives low drag &amp; low boom amplitude at ground. If boom too loud, airframe design probably wrong too.
   Good points. Will add to feature list.
   Yeah, that should improve soon. Software team has been buried in Model 3 bringup and tricky bug fixes, but that’s mostly done now.
  Almost done
Deep in the hole with my boring machine. Sometimes when we touch, the honesty’s too much ...  
 Probably about a tenth of the cost and a fifth of the time
Want to clarify that as individuals, the people responsible for the high costs &amp; long timelines are almost all well-meaning, but the system of incentives is messed up
Higher safety &amp; environmental requirements &amp; labor costs explain only a small part of the difference. True root cause imo is an exponential growth in bureaucracy &amp; a self-serving private sector consultant industry earning a % on project cost, incenting them to maximize cost.
And New York  
And we are even worse than that in California  
China’s progress in advanced infrastructure is more than 100 times faster than the US  
   Wow, if even Pinker doesn’t understand the difference between functional/narrow AI (eg. car) and general AI, when the latter *literally* has a million times more compute power and an open-ended utility function, humanity is in deep trouble
  End-to-end encryption encoded at firmware level. Unlikely to be hacked w current computing tech. If it is (and we learn about it), a crypto fix will go out immediately via network-wide firmware update.
 Will be simpler than IPv6 and have tiny packet overhead. Definitely peer-to-peer.
  Am feeling optimistic about beating the Semi specs announced at the unveiling for the same price. The Tesla Semi will be something really special.
_Ryan Can someone please do that!? I would def go.
That was a DM, right?
Don’t tell anyone, but the wifi password is “martians”
Tintin A &amp; B will attempt to beam “hello world” in about 22 hours when they pass near LA
First two Starlink demo satellites, called Tintin A &amp; B, deployed and communicating to Earth stations  
Falcon fairing half as seen from our catcher’s mitt in boat form, Mr. Steven. No apparent damage…  
 About a month
 This was an older version booster, so no recovery attempted
Missed by a few hundred meters, but fairing landed intact in water. Should be able catch it with slightly bigger chutes to slow down descent.
Made it back from space and fairing parafoil just deployed. Now trying to catch it ...
Going to try to catch the giant fairing (nosecone) of Falcon 9 as it falls back from space at…  
       If you love drones above your house, you’ll really love vast numbers of “cars” flying over your head that are 1000 times bigger and noisier and blow away anything that isn’t nailed down when they land
  Not sure. I let  know, but it’s still going. I literally own zero cryptocurrency, apart from .25 BTC that a friend sent me many years ago.
 That’s just random
If anyone is curious, the name was inspired by The Fault in Our Stars
High altitude wind shear data shows a probable 2% load exceedance. Small, but better to be paranoid. Postponing launch to tomorrow, assuming winds are better then.
Today’s Falcon launch carries 2 SpaceX test satellites for global broadband. If successful, Starlink constellation will serve least served.
        Strange though. Delta IV Heavy has half the payload of Falcon Heavy and the BO rocket doesn’t exist yet.
 I don’t get the little ship thing. You can’t show up at Mars in something the size of a rowboat. What if there are Martians? It would be so embarrassing.
I’m sure it’s parked around here somewhere …  
With Asimov’s Foundation Series etched in glass in the glovebox. Zeroth law …
My new toaster  
 Adding software feature to open glovebox automatically when car comes to a stop after a crash. Will look at bonding a thin plastic sheet to the front or back of screen.
_ellison  Found the source of the problem. The NASA database has the Falcon Block 1 performance. Version currently in production and set to fly in a few months is Block 5. SpaceX GNC team is submitting updated numbers.
  Not enough ignition fluid to light the outer two engines after several three engine relights. Fix is pretty obvious.
 _road  East, to support high flight rates for F9 and dual ocean landings for FH side boosters
 _road  No
_road  A Shortfall of Gravitas
 A third is under construction
 _ellison  Under consideration. We’ve already stretched the upper stage once. Easiest part of the rocket to change. Fairing 2, flying soon, also has a slightly larger diameter. Could make fairing much longer if need be &amp; will if BFR takes longer than expected.
_ _ellison  Side boosters landing on droneships &amp; center expended is only ~10% performance penalty vs fully expended. Cost is only slightly higher than an expended F9, so around $95M.
_ellison _   
  _ellison  Of course :)
  _ellison  Maybe that plan works out, but I will seriously eat my hat with a side of mustard if that rocket flies a national security spacecraft before 2023
 _ellison  That was three years ago, before ULA cancelled all medium versions of Delta IV. Future missions have all Delta fixed costs piled on, so their cost is now $600M+ for missions contracted for launch after 2020. Nutty high.
_ellison  Both exhaust velocity (Isp) and mass ratio drive the rocket equation. Also thrust/mass matters a lot for Oberth effect. Delta upper stage Isp is good, but mass ratio and thrust are not.
_ellison  The performance numbers in this database are not accurate. In process of being fixed. Even if they were, a fully expendable Falcon Heavy, which far exceeds the performance of a Delta IV Heavy, is $150M, compared to over $400M for Delta IV Heavy.
Love and Rockets  
Now, if I can just figure out how to attach those to a really big shark ...
Falcon Heavy engine plumes look like giant laser beams in this photo by rocketphotography  
Last pic of Starman in Roadster on its journey to Mars orbit and then the Asteroid Belt  
Third burn successful. Exceeded Mars orbit and kept going to the Asteroid Belt.  
   Thank you on behalf of SpaceX. An exciting future lies ahead!
  We’re doing ok for a bunch of monkeys. Humanity rocks!
  Thank you on behalf of SpaceX
On the rocket LZ  
Printed on the circuit board of a car in deep space  
Currently over Australia 🇦🇺  
Live view of Starman  
View from SpaceX Launch Control. Apparently, there is a car in orbit around Earth.  
Upper stage restart nominal, apogee raised to 7000 km. Will spend 5 hours getting zapped in Van Allen belts &amp; then attempt final burn for Mars.
Rocket LZ 1 and 2  
Camera views from inside the payload fairing   
Launch auto-sequence initiated (aka the holy mouse-click) for 3:45 liftoff 
Upper atmosphere winds currently 20% above max allowable load. Holding for an hour to allow winds to diminish. 
Flight profile    
Live webcast of the launch at  
About 2.5 hours to T-0 for Falcon Heavy. Watch sim for highlight reel of what we hope happens. Car actually takes 6 months to cover 200M+ miles to Mars  
All systems remain green for launch at 1:30pm EST tomorrow
Falcon Heavy sends a car to Mars  
   Thanks 😘
Regular departures ...  

Starman in Red Roadster  
Florida time
Falcon Heavy remains go for launch at 1:30pm on Tuesday
Mars Awaits  
Pale blue dot  
Falcon Heavy launch simulation almost ready. Will be set to Bowie’s Life on Mars.
Customs problem solved!  
Or maybe “Temperature Enhancement Device”
Apparently, some customs agencies are saying they won’t allow shipment of anything called a “Flamethrower”. To solve this, we are renaming it “Not a Flamethrower”.
 Early access build and especially Dev build are feature-rich, but the features aren’t reliable enough yet
 Release candidate in final testing phase
 No
 I think we’ve figured it out
 Yes
Small detail, but each one will come with a serial number from 1 to 20,000  
 A snowthrower would be really fun
All flamethrowers will ship with a complimentary boring fire extinguisher
Flamethrowers sold out
  Of course
 Yes
This rocket was meant to test very high retrothrust landing in water so it didn’t hurt the droneship, but amazingly it has survived. We will try to tow it back to shore.  
    Woz is a lovable, fuzzy bear 🐻
  From the world’s leading experts in zombie defense
 Now that’s a real flamethrower …

Falcon Heavy in foreground on Launch Complex 39A and Falcon 9 in background on 40  
15k
 ~3k
 So hard to keep future product releases secret
10k
 For sure, and it keeps you warm at the same time
  Coming soon
 Sure
 Sentience is overrated
But wait, there’s more: the flamethrower is sentient, its safe word is “cryptocurrency” and it comes with a free blockchain
 Ok
_ojeda   Hmm ... portal gun. Now that would be interesting.
You’d need millions of zombies for a so-called “apocalypse” anyway. Where would I even get a factory big enough to make so many!?
The rumor that I’m secretly creating a zombie apocalypse to generate demand for flamethrowers is completely false
  Good thing you didn’t ask about the Freezegun ...
  Hmmm
Unless you like fun
Obviously, a flamethrower is a super terrible idea. Definitely don’t buy one.
1,000 ordered already, only 19,000 left!
When the zombie apocalypse happens, you’ll be glad you bought a flamethrower. Works against hordes of the undead or your money back!
Don’t do this  
 ATF says any flamethrower with a flame shorter than 10 ft is A-ok. Our design is max fun for least danger. I’d be way more scared of a steak knife.
Great for roasting nuts 🔥 🥜  
The Boring Company flamethrower guaranteed to liven up any party!   
Say hello to my little friend …  
Aiming for first flight of Falcon Heavy on Feb 6 from Apollo launchpad 39A at Cape Kennedy. Easy viewing from the public causeway.
Falcon Heavy hold-down firing this morning was good. Generated quite a thunderhead of steam. Launching in a week or so.  
 Check   for updates
 Done
 Definitely. You will be able to do pretty much anything via voice command. Software team is focused on core Model 3 functionality right now, but that will be done soon, then we will add a lot more features.
   _AA_Carmack There aren’t even good normal parties in Silicon Valley!
_AA_Carmack  Actually, you can upgrade the battery pack for a huge improvement in range and some improvement in performance. There are other items you can upgrade too (seats, infotainment, etc), but I recommend keeping those parts original.
_Millard  That sounds cool. Will do.
    Fixed in next release
Long exposure of rocket ascent, reentry from space and landing burn. (Credit )  
  Good idea. We can just have the menu pop up as soon as you put the car into park.
 Of course. And an outdoor screen that plays a highlight reel of the best scenes in movie history.
 Near 405
Gonna put an old school drive-in, roller skates &amp; rock restaurant at one of the new Tesla Supercharger locations in LA

Falcon Heavy goes vertical  
Using a neural net to detect rain using cameras (no dedicated rain or sun sensors). Computers are very patient.   
Come work at the biggest &amp; most advanced factory on Earth! Located by a river near the beautiful Sierra Nevada mountains with wild horses roaming free.  
  Coming very soon
 Vastly better maps/nav coming soon
_hogan Ok
  Sure
 Yeah, it’s terrible. Had to upgrade old Linux OS and a bunch of drivers first. Major browser upgrades coming to all cars in a few months. Note, will be slower at first until code is optimized.
  Similar total size. Maybe slightly bigger to account for a really gamechanging (I think) feature I’d like to add.
 Sustainable energy production with solar and batteries will grow much faster than auto on a percentage basis. That will be a big focus next year, with primary remaining Model 3 ramp.
 Was gonna say we’ll do all but the last, but that last one sounds like good, cheesy fun :)
 Should be in next update
 Done
 I promise that we will make a pickup truck right after Model Y. Have had the core design/engineering elements in my mind for almost 5 years. Am dying to build it.
 Sorry for the delay. We have the most advanced AI neural net of any consumer product by far, so it’s going through exhaustive testing. The results are blowing me away though and I think you will have a similar experience.
Wanted again to send a note of deep gratitude to Tesla owners WW for taking a chance on a new company that all experts said would fail.   So much blood, sweat &amp; tears from the Tesla team went into creating cars that you’d truly love. I hope you do.  How can we improve further?
 We will! At least, whatever is left over after we build the obelisks.
 The circle is complete
_McKie Ok
Hats sold out, flamethrowers soon!
 It does often seem that the most entertaining belief or outcome is the most likely to prevail
 True
So strange that people often believe things inversely proportionate to the evidence. Given a set of possible explanations, why pick the extremely unlikely one!?
 Yes
Having a sinking feeling that most people actually do think it was aliens …
When you get the new Tesla software update, go Ho Ho Ho. There’s an Easter egg inside the Easter egg, but it’s not funny.
46k limited edition boring hats sold, 4K to go. Then flamethrower.
I think last night might have been the biggest Rorschach test ever
   Isn’t it obvious?
If you liked tonight’s launch, you will really like Falcon Heavy next month: 3 rocket cores &amp; 3X thrust. 2 cores return to base doing synchronized aerobatics. 3rd lands on droneship.
 Never heard of it  
Nuclear alien UFO from North Korea  
  It was definitely aliens
Launch underway  
   His “PhD” is in literature (really), presumably bad fiction
 How much is it?
I love Twitter
  Bloody hell, I’m going to have to write a blog. Can’t fit this into tweets.
_made_new  I would only call someone an idiot if people were mistakenly under the impression that the person was smart
 However, public transit is obviously not fully solving the problem, as most major cities have been in traffic hell for decades with no solution in sight. Multi-level tunnels can solve this, but we need much better tunneling technology, as it is currently super slow and expensive.
_Hart Major navigation overhaul coming in early 2018. Will be light-years ahead of current system, but we are testing it rigorously before rolling out.
 For the record, I actually love trains, most subways and London buses.
 Idiots can be very dangerous when they seem smart, but aren’t (having “PhD” in their bio is a dead giveaway), as some policymakers may get fooled. That’s what really bothered me about that human cat meme / transit “expert”.
Glad to see that Tesla owners are having a good experience. Working to improve further. Some cool software updates coming soon.  
 Sorry about that. Thanks for letting me know. Will get it fixed.
 Pics soon
  With people around, so you can see scale  
_alcot  If things go perfectly, all three rocket booster cores will come back and land. Sides back at the Cape, center on the droneship.
Falcon Heavy launching from same  pad as the Saturn V Apollo 11 moon rocket. It was 50% higher thrust with five F-1 engines at 7.5M lb-F. I love that rocket so much.
Max thrust at lift-off is 5.1 million pounds or 2300 metric tons. First mission will run at 92%.
 Hate it when that happens. Some people are so rude!
Falcon Heavy at the Cape  
 Knight Rider is real
Thanks!  
 For now, we only use those on super hot reentry missions. Will go to all Ti with Falcon 9 V5, which is a few months away.
_quinlan    Where’s the evidence!?
   I also support the Concave Earth and Hollow Globe Societies. Just covering my bases …
HG2G
42k
  Meant to say “sanctimonious idiot”
 Good point. It’s just a really bad and fundamentally misleading article that doesn’t actually represent my point of view at all. Other publications referred to it as an “interview”.
 Sorry
 You’re an idiot
 This depressingly misleading &amp; misanthropic article came from a very brief digression at an AI conf, not from an interview with Wired as is falsely implied. This is why I stopped following Wired long ago. There are way better tech pubs out there.
 Yes
 Yeah, pretty much anywhere
 Yes
10 hat aficionados, in appreciation for their exquisite taste in millinery, will be picked at random to tour the LA tunnel &amp; drive boring machine
 Our existence cannot just be about solving one miserable problem after another. There need to be reasons to live.
It is high time that humanity went beyond Earth. Should have a moon base by now and sent astronauts to Mars. The future needs to inspire.  
35,000
And those are just the really big ones. The Permian was especially bad, unless you were a mushroom.    
_Levy04 Safest flamethrower ever
I know it’s a little off-brand, but kids love it
After 50k hats, we will start selling The Boring Company flamethrower
Over 30,000 hats sold!
 Plus a towel and a sign saying “Don’t Panic”
On Tuesday, SpaceX will attempt to refly both an orbital rocket and spacecraft for the first…  
 Yes
 Do it
The *real* money comes from merchandising. I learned it from this documentary  
_carl Deal
That special hat delivery will take place deep within the real, but fictional (of course), tunnel we are building under LA while you drive the giant machine blindfolded. This will actually happen.
 Beyond anything you can imagine
 And, at the risk of stating the obvious, extremely boring
 Because it’s stupid
 Maybe
Every 5000th buyer of our boringly boring hat will get a free hat signed by the delivery guy  
Hat
 Yes
  Busted
To preserve the transcendent majesty &amp; specialness of The Boring Company cap, we are capping cap orders at 50,000 caps. Almost there ...  
 That’s certainly the right way to go to store massive amounts of data for a long time
 Asimov’s Foundation books should def be part of the mission. They’re amazing.
 I love the thought of a car drifting apparently endlessly through space and perhaps being discovered by an alien race millions of years in the future
 Red car for a red planet
 Yeah
_Channel Yes
Payload will be my midnight cherry Tesla Roadster playing Space Oddity. Destination is Mars orbit. Will be in deep space for a billion years or so if it doesn’t blow up on ascent.
Falcon Heavy to launch next month from Apollo 11 pad at the Cape. Will have double thrust of next largest rocket. Guaranteed to be exciting, one way or another.
 What does it look like?
Racing video part 2  
Model X races a gasoline sports car while towing a sports car  
 Electric pods for sure. Rails maybe, maybe not.
 A Loop is like a Hyperloop, but without drawing a vacuum inside the tube. Don’t need to get rid of air friction for short routes.
 Kinda
The Boring Company will compete to fund, build &amp; operate a high-speed Loop connecting Chicago O’Hare Airport to downtown   
Why is there no Flat Mars Society!?
_ _nz  As I’ve said before, I am definitely a Martian
_nz  int main(){}
 Not true. A friend sent me part of a BTC a few years, but I don’t know where it is.
Mars sky is the opposite of Earth Blue sunrise and sunset Red during the day  
 Wow, they played D&amp;D in D&amp;D
 It’s there. Just unfold the visor and lift the cover.
 Otherwise you’d only see a blur
Got to regulate AI/robotics like we do food, drugs, aircraft &amp; cars. Public risks require public oversight. Getting rid of the FAA wdn’t make flying safer. They’re there for good reason.   
This is nothing. In a few years, that bot will move so fast you’ll need a strobe light to see it. Sweet dreams…  
Thanksgiving in the Rockies. Love my bro . Radishing t-shirt courtesy of his company,…  
 Adjusting soon
Congratulations to the Tesla crew and South Australian authorities who worked so hard to get this manufactured and installed in record time!  
Initial Hat Offering going great w over $300k in hat sales already! Thanks for buying our super boring hat. You rock, figuratively &amp; literally. All cash goes directly towards more boring.
 Good point
 For one thing, aliens obv built the pyramids! Who but aliens could have figured out how to align and stack stone blocks in a series of concentric squares!? Um, ok, I guess maybe people.
Not saying the next gen Roadster special upgrade package *will* definitely enable it to fly short hops, but maybe …   Certainly possible. Just a question of safety. Rocket tech applied to a car opens up revolutionary possibilities.
Should clarify that this is the base model performance. There will be a special option package that takes it to the next level.
Tesla Semi  
0 to 100 km/h in 1.9 sec  
Sorry, date is tomorrow night at 8pm. This pic is from the old invite.
It can transform into a robot, fight aliens and make one hell of a latte  
  Do you really believe that someone’s life should be ruined if they make a single offensive comment for which they then sincerely apologize?
  That is a *counterpoint* to illustrate absurdity, meaning that obviously a single careless statement should *not* ruins someone’s life
 ... say scientists — among other insights gained — after a large vat of LSD overturned in the lab. Also discovered: humans are just sentient sponges, drywall tastes like a marshmallow and gravity is real. The last point remains heavily debated.
Tesla Semi Truck unveil to be webcast live on Thursday at 8pm! This will blow your mind clear out of your skull and into an alternate dimension. Just need to find my portal gun ...
Sunset at the Gigafactory  
 Sure ...
"If one day, my words are against science, choose science." Mustafa Kemal Atatürk
I placed the flowers  Three broken ribs A pierced lung And still he fought For peace at…  
Atatürk Anıtkabir  
_Richards One rocket, slightly toasted
 500 ft so far. Should be 2 miles long in three or four months and hopefully stretch the whole 405 N-S corridor from LAX to the 101 in a year or so.
Picture of The Boring Company LA tunnel taken yesterday  
Btw, just want to express a word of appreciation for the hard work of the Tesla Gigafactory team. Reason I camped on the roof was because it was less time than driving to a hotel room in Reno. Production hell, ~8th circle …
Whiskey, fire, s’mores and JC  Also, hotdog or not hotdog?  
Campfire on the Gigafactory roof  
Just feed it The Godfather movies as input. What’s the worst that could happen?  
  It’s true tho
 Groan
On the list of people who should absolutely *not* be allowed to develop digital superintelligence...  
  Yeah, don't exactly need to be Sherlock Holmes.
 It won't even need to ask you most of the time
 A reminder of the youth of our 10,000 year (to be generous) civilization. We are not even a flash in the pan compared to the 4,500,000,000 year age of Earth. I won't even bother mentioning the age of the Universe.
_info  Not ready to do a proper announcement yet, but maybe in a month or so. Maryland has been awesome to work with and just wanted to say thanks.
 But the hat is real!
Congratulations to Coulter Tilton of Missouri, buyer of hat 5000! You have won a free hat signed by the Boring team.
Now at 6400 hats …
 There is an actual tunnel and it's getting longer every day
It all comes full circle  
Second boring machine almost ready. Will be called Line-Storm, after the poem by Frost. "And be my love in the rain."  
  And credit for the logo art to JJ Abrams
Almost 4000 hats sold so far. Whoever buys the 5000th gets a free hat with their hat!  
 Btw, credit for The Boring Company name goes to 
 Gonna build that tunnel one hat at a time
The world's most boring hat   
Amazing sim of neutron stars colliding  
_Mr_Cool That was a joke. I didn't realize people actually used those.
Yesterday's Reddit Ask Me Anything about BFR. You're welcome nk!  
BFR AMA on r/space in 2 hours
 And other places
@_andyoneal  That's just to win our Hyperloop student competition in ~1 mile tube. Practical version would have a turbo compressor on front taking ram air pressure at near sonic to hypersonic speeds &amp; driving that thru air skiis &amp; rearward for thrust.
  Party time!
 To be more inclusive, how about a "pick your tech level" setting. Could make the Tesla sound like horses (coconuts!), chariots, steam engines, gasoline cars, ...
 Aim for 10 kN of thrust on a 200 kg sled. a=F/m ... game over.
Stamping Model 3 Body Panels (real-time)  
 I own two gasoline cars. One is a Model T that a friend gave me and the other is a Series 1 '67 E-type Roadster. My first love.
 No, but I do have a Gundam Wing
 This weekend
Just posted a photo  
 Very high pressure air cold gas thruster
The last of ten Iridium global communication satellites delivered to orbit several hundred miles…  
_vishnu  Everything all at once
_ That is actual speed. It is slowed down right now to confirm build consistency and so that a person can stop the robots in time if something goes wrong.
The Model 3 body line slowed down to 1/10th speed  
Jupiter is big  
  Don't underestimate the power of chakras
 Just kept working on my crown chakra and boom! Don't let anyone tell you magic isn't real. Warning, EXTREMELY powerful  
 This doesn't even *seem* innocent
 You forgot to add the video version of their response  
  _apps Assume the worst. Now I need to get back to work...
   _apps Answers: Yes. No. Doesn't matter.
  _apps There is only one config being built right now, so the only question is "What color?". Don't need a configurator for that.
  _apps Bear in mind that the production ramp is an exponential curve. Late Oct is possible, but not certain. Literally every day makes a big difference.
 _apps Dec will be a big month, so probably, but it is impossible to be certain right now
  Yeah
  _apps I'm doing my best to recalibrate, but that is a fair criticism. However, if I wasn't inherently optimistic, I wouldn't be doing electric cars and rockets in the first place!
 Med medical equipment has priority
 _apps Probably 6 to 8 weeks
_apps You'll know as soon as we do. We are deep in production hell 🔥
 Or do you?
 High pain tolerance
 Semi specs are better than anything I've seen reported so far. Semi eng/design team work is aces, but other needs are greater right now.
Tesla Semi unveil now Nov 16. Diverting resources to fix Model 3 bottlenecks &amp; increase battery production for Puerto Rico &amp; other affected areas.
    Not good. Sounds like some 3rd party installers are taking advantage of Powerwall demand &gt;&gt; supply. Taking action …
   The internal Tesla Powerwall install team in PR is very small right now. Sending experienced installers from continental US to hire &amp; train local team as fast as possible.
   Tesla always charges the same price for a Powerwall (only taxes &amp; shipping costs vary), so something is messed up here. I've asked my team to stop shipment to any installers charging excessive premiums.
 Sounds good, I look forward to talking later today
 I would be happy to talk. Hopefully, Tesla can be helpful.
 Hell yeah, with that crew, we will party like Escobar and Cobain wish they could've partied!!
 We should definitely get a room ...
 I know that closet is nice and warm, but it's time you admitted you are one of the creators of the next one. Everyone already knows and we will still love you just as much (almost).
 I'm auditioning to be a roofing spokesmodel  in the greater Reno area
 The singularity for this level of the simulation is coming soon. I wonder what the levels above us look like.   Good chance they are less interesting and deeper levels are better. So far, even our primitive sims are often more entertaining than reality itself.
 The Tesla team has done this for many smaller islands around the world, but there is no scalability limit, so it can be done for Puerto Rico too. Such a decision would be in the hands of the PR govt, PUC, any commercial stakeholders and, most importantly, the people of PR.
 Final episode was disgustingly good
I believe I can fly  
Aiming for two rocket landings in 48 hours this weekend  
  It would need to refill to return, but it could get to Jupiter with low payload
  Homes on Jupiter with solar-power *and* a Powerwall going right now for great price!
 Assuming max acceleration of 2 to 3 g's, but in a comfortable direction. Will feel like a mild to moderate amusement park ride on ascent and then smooth, peaceful &amp; silent in zero gravity for most of the trip until landing.
 Yup :)
Part 2  
Fly to most places on Earth in under 30 mins and anywhere in under 60. Cost per seat should be…  
BFR will take you anywhere on Earth in less than 60 mins  
Mars City Opposite of Earth. Dawn and dusk sky are blue on Mars and day sky is red.  
Moon Base Alpha  
Will be announcing something really special at today's talk  
 Just another day in the office
_com  Congrats Mom! I love you.
Prev ideas for paying ~$10B dev cost incl. Kickstarter &amp; collecting underpants, which turned out to be um... less lucrative than expected
Headed to Adelaide soon to describe new BFR planetary colonizer design in detail . This should be worth seeing. Design feels right.
_Deano   Yes, I did :)
Good NYT article from several years ago about the value of fiction  
 Yes
Simulation of how the SpaceX Interplanetary Spaceship and Rocket design would work. Will be…  
 Good
Major improvements &amp; some unexpected applications to be unveiled on Friday at  in Australia
Presentation of  Interplanetary Spaceship &amp; Rocket design from 2016  
  That's not a lot of money for a giant like Daimler/Mercedes. Wish they'd do more. Off by a zero.
_Subhamk Don't give up if the cause is important enough, even if you believe you are walking into doom. Good friends really matter.
 Absolutely. Moreover, we expect to expand the facility significantly over time.
 Does my hivemind count as me?
_Gupta Def not ok. Just sent a reminder to Tesla stores that we just want people to look forward to their next visit. That's what really matters.
 In discussions with national govt. Just need a temporary reprieve on local content requirements until we can build a factory in India.
_ATC What if we just made a mini version of the Tesla Semi?
 Of course :)
High res version at  
 Most of it
Long road to reusabity of Falcon 9 primary boost stage…When upper stage &amp; fairing also reusable, costs will drop by a factor &gt;100.  
  Actually ... yes
Tesla Semi truck unveil &amp; test ride tentatively scheduled for Oct 26th in Hawthorne. Worth seeing this beast in person. It's unreal.
 Promise to be as boring as possible!
 Yes
@_vinouz_ _Zadeh Exactly
Astronaut spacesuit next to Crew Dragon  
 Fun, exciting tweets coming soon!
 Sorry about that. You're right. I was depressing myself too :(
 Govts don't need to follow normal laws. They will obtain AI developed by companies at gunpoint, if necessary.
 Should be low on our list of concerns for civilizational existential risk. NK has no entangling alliances that wd polarize world into war.
 NK launching a nuclear missile would be suicide for their leadership, as SK, US and China wd invade and end the regime immediately
 May be initiated not by the country leaders, but one of the AI's, if it decides that a prepemptive strike is most probable path to victory
China, Russia, soon all countries w strong computer science. Competition for AI superiority at national level most likely cause of WW3 imo.
 Zeroth Law
It begins ...  
Putting together SpaceX rocket landing blooper reel. We messed up a lot before it finally worked, but there's some epic explosion footage …
 Not a bad idea. For sure, it makes sense to test AI for safety in some kind of open world / sandbox virtual world.
_Ryan In about six months or so. Linked to dual motor config.
We took the SpaceX/Tesla Hyperloop pusher pod for a spin by itself a few days ago to see what it…  
   Tunnels are sealed to 5 atmospheres of water &amp; gas pressure. Just need walls around the apertures.
  Not sure, but probably
_uk  Feature coming soon
 They're so real. Anyone going to that much trouble must really care. I'd gladly follow their commands, but they're so friggin obtuse …
 That's pretty much why we did it
Worth reading Life 3.0 by . AI will be the best or worst thing ever for humanity, so let’s get it right.  
 Hyperloop (near) vacuum tube runs parallel to SpaceX on Jack Northrop Blvd. It is 0.8 miles long and just under 6 ft in diameter.
To be clear, a Hyperloop passenger version wouldn't have intense light strobe effect (just for testing), nor uncomfortable acceleration
 Brakes
  
Will run the SpaceX pusher sled later this week and see what it can do
 Moon base alpha (cheesy show, but I loved it) plus Mars
  _Gardi Not that this is remotely equiv to man on the moon, but there is a world of difference between talking about some random idea and doing it
  _Gardi Actually, no, his architecture was different. Also, thinking of going to the moon and actually going to the moon are not the same thing.
Hyperloop pod run by team WARR  
   The AI could def find us there, but maybe it won't care
A Model S in The Boring Company tunnel being dug under Los Angeles (starting in Hawthorne)  
 Yes, it is
   A tiny one
Btw, high accel only needed because tube is short. For passenger transport, this can be spread over 20+ miles, so no spilt drinks.
  No such thing as true vacuum, so actually yes
 Call it ~800mph
Might be possible to go supersonic in our test Hyperloop tube, even though it's only 0.8 miles long. Very high accel/decel needed …
Congratulations to WARR team from Tech Univ Munich for winning 2nd  competition! Peak speed of 324 km/h, which is over 200 mph!!
Just arrived at the  competition final. Student teams have amazing talent!
  I hope they and any others trying to advance transport technology succeed
 _Berlin  Exactly. Wouldn't let anyone invest more than a token amount in early rounds of SpaceX and Tesla, as the probability of failure was &gt;90%.

 Sorry! Coming next year, along with completing the Trans-Canada Highway and interconnecting US, Mexico and Central America.
  Funny thing is, whenever I suggest all companies go to zero incentives, room gets very quiet. That's because others get a lot more than us.
  Literally zero incentive laws were put into place by my companies. Zero. Others put them in place. Happy to go to zero incentives for all.
 I'm not an investor. Just believe in putting money into my own companies. Don't think the OPM approach is right.
    _hype  The latter. There are pretty long gaps between each team run, so livestream is not the way to go.
From last year, but still my favorite video of the Falcon 9 rocket booster returning from space…  
   _hype  SpaceX and The Boring Company are running the Hyperloop competition
 Tesla does not really have "TTunes". That's a joke.
 Will be hanging with my little chum, Gary, on Sunday
  Let me check on that for you. Found the answer right here: 🔥💩
   It was misinterpreted by Rolfe at WSJ as a fundraising effort. Neuralink is not seeking investors.
  WSJ has been laboriously negative for over a decade. I'm surprised they haven't bored their readers to death by now.
  Neuralink is not raising money
Max recovered booster velocity was Mach 7.9 (BulgarianSat). Energy is velocity squared, so this is a bigger difference than it appears
Max velocity: Mach 6.9 Max altitude: 247 km Highest so far, but velocity matters much more
  Probably 2m or so
 Exactly. Yeah.
 Intentionally? Yes
 It is approximately the size of a carrot
Touchdown: Vertical Velocity (m/s): -1.47  Lateral Velocity  (m/s): -0.15  Tilt (deg):  0.40 ​ Lateral position: 0.7m from target center
Falcon 9 boost stage on droneship Just Read the Instructions  
A midnight amendment, followed by a vigorously opposed subpoena. Someone has been naughty …  
 I played those games :)
 That's a SpaceX engineer in there, not me
New Model X SUV now faster than a $500k Lamborghini  
 Yeah. It's kinda disgusting, but my boys and I love it :)
First picture of SpaceX spacesuit. More in days to follow. Worth noting that this actually works…  
 I would say that  is the greatest publication in the history of all conscious beings, living or dead
_errera I'm not the CEO of Ball Mason Jars. Also, not judging …
Was at a friend's party this weekend and drank wine from a mason jar  
 I can't hide the truth any more …
 Yes :)
Watching eclipse with sunglasses on through the Model S glass roof. Wow!
SpaceX rocket factory as seen from space  
 Yeah, but not a priority right now
  I'm not coming for anything. Just digging some tunnels and might draw a vacuum on some of them.
 We are going to move all info and settings to the "cloud" (aka server) so any Tesla you drive in the world automatically adjusts to you
Pics of SpaceX spacesuit developed for NASA commercial crew program coming out next week. Undergoing ocean landing mobility/safety tests.
  Totally agree. This was a foolish oversight.
 At some point. Features are prioritized by importance * number of owners likely to benefit.
 Yeah. That's been on the future feature list for a while. Need to make sure rain sensor doesn't false positive or drain battery.
@_jeffreyr  _Ames  Will prob do something like that
 _Ames  Problem is possible impact on curbs or ground objects with the car itself or door swing arc
 Will do. Also, we need to make it a lot easier to adjust the headrest.
_Ames  Yeah, it should probably automatically adjust to the user config of whoever is closest to a given door when the handle is touched
 Good point. We will add that to all cars in one of the upcoming software releases.
 I love Kermit
But you can check it out on . Btw, this isn't a video, like cliff diving or fake rocket landings, that matters if it's reversed.
Wigs me out too much. Deleting ...
  Yes, just that the permitting process is slow
 I want one too!
Tesla Powerwalls can support houses of any size, but the cool thing is we can tow this house around with a Model X!  
  The danger is def high for South Korea, due to proximity, but much less for distant targets like the US. SK anti-missile tech is excellent.
  We certainly could, but, while not suggesting complacency, I'm confident that the US DoD and intelligence orgs have this covered
12th mission of our Dragon robotic space freighter in support of the  _Station  
First draft animation of the Falcon Heavy three core launch. FH is twice the thrust of the next…  
  For sure
_Zadeh Biggest impediment to recognizing AI danger are those so convinced of their own intelligence they can't imagine anyone doing what they can't
Would like to express our appreciation to Microsoft for use of their Azure cloud computing platform. This required massive processing power.
OpenAI + Dota 2  
 It is far too complex for that. Requires a team of the world's best AI researchers with massive computing resources.
Nobody likes being regulated, but everything (cars, planes, food, drugs, etc) that's a danger to the public is regulated. AI should be too.
 I sure hope so, but we can't take that for granted
If you're not concerned about AI safety, you should be. Vastly more risk than North Korea.  
OpenAI first ever to defeat world's best players in competitive eSports. Vastly more complex than traditional board games like chess &amp; Go.
   Coming soon ...
 Hi Mom!
  A level 9 orc illusionist and dressmaker
 This is about as true as TIME being a paragon of great journalism. Please spend at least 8 seconds checking your facts.
 Just because I have the outfit and the awesome weapons doesn't make me a ninja. That requires years of training.
  There are dozens of bogus or half-true anecdotes don't really matter &amp; maybe 5 to 10 that do. Guess I could post for those interested.
 One other I'd like to correct from the biography: I never said I was a samurai. Said I was ninja. No, that's a joke. Didn't say that either.
 MB was given 52 weeks of salary &amp; stock in appreciation for her great contribution &amp; left to join a small firm, once again as a generalist
 Mary Beth was an amazing assistant for over 10 yrs, but as company complexity grew, the role required several specialists vs one generalist
 Of all the bogus anecdotes, this one troubles me the most. Ashlee never actually ran this story by me or my assistant. It is total nonsense.
 Ashlee Vance's biography is mostly correct, but also rife with errors &amp; never independently fact-checked, despite my request that he do so
 Major increases in the Supercharger and Tesla urban charger network happening over the next several months
First draft animation of the Falcon Heavy three core launch. FH is twice the thrust of the next…  
 I agree. Working on it ...
  _Y  It's only a matter of time
 y
True, although the changemyview subreddit is least likely to be clicked on by people who really should change their view  
Arguments, followed, of course, by complaints  
 Are you complaining that we are not complaining enough?
_Y  And let's not forget the forum on which we are posting… I've heard - now this is just a rumor - that people say mean things on Twitter.
 Like I said ...
 It gets really dark
 True, there are frequent complaint expansion packs
Except for complaining. That has remained constant throughout history at 100/100.  
Officially verified as the first production electric car to exceed 1000km on a single charge! Congratulations Tesla Owners Italia!!  
 I guess a proof of concept is needed
Looking forward to launching  astronauts to the International Space Station next year!  
  Sorry about that. You certainly should have been. Will get you guys in a car right away.
 No, must brake safely to a halt
SpaceX student Hyperloop top speed competition coming up soon!  
We poured our heart into the car. Hope you love it.  
Sure hope so  
 Batteries!
Thoughtful Model 3 review by , one of the most insightful journalists  
   There are several dozen ship names in the Culture series, but I liked those best
 Umm ...  
 Yeah, it's better than a Model 3. We can put a lot more in a car at a higher price.
  I'm sure there are better answers than what I do, which is just take the pain and make sure you really care about what you're doing
  If you buy a ticket to hell, it isn't fair to blame hell ...
  Maybe not medically tho. Dunno. Bad feelings correlate to bad events, so maybe real problem is getting carried away in what I sign up for.
  Yeah
 The reality is great highs, terrible lows and unrelenting stress. Don't think people want to hear about the last two.
 Model 3 uses two intersecting planes of air for vertical control &amp; lateral fins hidden within the dashboard for horizontal control
Model 3 Interior  
 Yes
_Ryan Probably middle of next year. Focus now is on getting out of Model 3 production hell. More versions = deeper in hell.
 Yes
 Sure
 Watched them personally to make sure &amp; I agree with the outcome. Wouldn't have judged differently. Amazing videos all, but  was best.
Couldn't believe how incredibly inspiring and creative they were!!
First!  
Second  
Third  
Project Loveday winners ...
Setting up for Model 3 handover tomorrow night ...  
 _Penguin  If we're lucky
 _Penguin  Sides run high thrust, center is lower thrust until sides separate &amp; fly back. Center then throttles up, keeps burning &amp; lands on droneship.
 Side booster rockets return to Cape Canaveral. Center lands on droneship.
Falcon Heavy maiden launch this November  
 Tesla team will verify
Testing The Boring Company car elevator  
Love this Tesla P100D drag racing video  
_0   Movie on the subject coming soon...
Tim's piece on AI is excellent, but we actually face a double exponential rate of improvement. AI hardware &amp; software are both exponential.  
  I've talked to Mark about this. His understanding of the subject is limited.
 A book of the most beautiful classic cars given to me on my 18th birthday on a farm in Saskatchewan. Van Gogh's Starry Night.
 $US price in $AUD plus import duties and sales tax
  We can't have too many direct shareholders or we're required to become a public co. Will check if possible through a feeder fund though.
Often comes as a surprise when people learn that 80% of my time is on engineering/design and just 20% on other stuff  
   A 9m diameter vehicle fits in our existing factories ...
  Yes, I postponed publishing in order to present the updated interplanetary rocket &amp; spaceship design in Adelaide. Will be on the final day.
Discussing physics of tunnels with Mayor Vargas (who has a physics background). Hawthorne support for The Boring Company much appreciated.  
  Kinda have to :)
 LA-SF-Reno/Sparks would be great. Tesla logistics costs for Sparks-Fremont (batteries &amp; motors) and Fremont-LA (finished cars) are gigantic.
 Verbal approval was at Federal level. Still a lot of work before formal, written approval, but this opens door for state &amp; city discussions.
 Adding Boston and Providence would be the natural extension of the line
 An underground Hyperloop would mean no disruption above ground and be way faster, so I think it is he right way to go
 City of Chicago already approached us about doing a high speed tunnel from O'Hare to downtown. They've been great.
If you want this to happen fast, please let your local &amp; federal elected representatives know. Makes a big difference if they hear from you.
Still a lot of work needed to receive formal approval, but am optimistic that will occur rapidly
 For sure. First set of tunnels are to alleviate greater LA urban congestion. Will start NY-DC in parallel. Then prob LA-SF and a TX loop.
 Support would be much appreciated!
City center to city center in each case, with up to a dozen or more entry/exit elevators in each city
Just received verbal govt approval for The Boring Company to build an underground NY-Phil-Balt-DC Hyperloop. NY-DC in 29 mins.
_foust Plan is to do powered landings on Mars for sure, but with a vastly bigger ship
 y
 True. Need to explain full story of Tesla. So much nonsense out there, amplified by propaganda from some in fossil fuels &amp; confused shorts.
 _choo_choo  Not attacking Electrek. Just making sure people don't have the wrong impression.
 Not true. Email from customer.  
I should clarify: Tesla stock is obviously high based on past &amp; present, but low if you believe in Tesla's future. Place bets accordingly …  
  Yeah, otherwise hard to find them
 y
 It is true, so fine by me
_bo1 Small thing (very small), but I made it this way for those who care and understand. Source and appearance are the same.
It's what you don't say
 I do have one question. What does GoDaddy mean?
 Good point
Fixed. Now it's good.
 Yes
  Stay tuned
 I told you it was verbose. Better tomorrow :)
Excited to announce the launch of   It's a little verbose right now, but that will be fixed tomorrow.
_rm _Manu Just checked and yes
  True. Also, Ariane primary bay can deliver slightly heavier satellites than Falcon 9. Falcon Heavy is needed ...
  Commercially procured launches means launches that were openly competed. SpaceX is not allowed to compete for many US and non-US launches.
US Senate hearing on advancing the exploration and settlement of space  
 _ac We do that too, but for free
_ace11 Hopefully
Other orgs shd also develop reusable orbital rockets. If an airplane co had reusable airplanes, buying single use airplanes wd seem crazy.  
_Manu That doesn't sound right
Worth noting that Boeing/Lockheed ("Other US" on chart) get a billion dollar annual subsidy even if they launch nothing. SpaceX does not.  
 Latest S and X tires have internal acoustic foam
Going over the small nuances of Model 3 production. Very important that nothing sounds tinny.  
 Cool!
 The very near future, not, like, the far away future
You can now drive anywhere in the US (except N Alaska), most of Europe, China &amp; Japan using the Tesla Supercharger network!  
  Of course!
 _Gross On University Ave, above the old bakery
 One of my sons is named Xavier, after Professor X!
 That's probably the best use
 Cool 😎
  Maybe the upcoming IAC in Adelaide
 It was a tough negotiation, but they seemed like good guys. I hope they kept the stock. Would be worth a lot today.
   That pizza looked about as appetizing as drywall. If anything, they were doing people at the party a favor by taking it.
  Wasn't wearing a suit, am def not part of a "posse" &amp; didn't even know Leo/Orlando were going. Just went to say hi to my friend Ken Howery.
Thanks PayPal for allowing me to buy back   No plans right now, but it has great sentimental value to me.

First Production Model 3  
 It's who is first to pay full price for the car. Hard rule. I have first Roadster and X, but not first S.
 Ira Ehrenpreis had rights to 1st car as he was 1st to place a full deposit, but gave those rights to me as my 46th bday present. Tks Ira!
Production unit 1 of Model 3 is now built and going through final checkout. Pics soon.
 Never heard of them
Stop biting my finger dammit     
This will be the highest power battery system in the world by a factor of 3. Australia rocks!!  
 The world's population is accelerating towards collapse, but few seem to notice or care
  Thanks ! Really proud of the rocket and SpaceX team today. Min apogee requirement was 28,000 km, Falcon 9 achieved 43,000 km.
SpaceX team reviewed all systems again late last night. Done our best to ensure all is good.  
 We're going to spend the 4th doing a full review of rocket &amp; pad systems. Launch no earlier than 5th/6th. Only one chance to get it right …
Wanted to say thanks to all that own or ordered a Tesla. It matters to us that you took a risk on a new car company. We won't forget.
Looks like we can reach 20,000 Model 3 cars per month in Dec
Handover party for first 30 customer Model 3's on the 28th! Production grows exponentially, so Aug should be 100 cars and Sept above 1500.
Model 3 passed all regulatory requirements for production two weeks ahead of schedule. Expecting to complete SN1 on Friday
_miuta  Norway is awesome
 Actually, China manufacturing quality is excellent. Among other things, that's where iPhones, many Android phones &amp; most laptops are made.
Another SpaceX launch today if weather is good  
 Coming later today
Sorry to hear about China launch failure today. I know how painful that is to the people who designed &amp; built it.  
    Suggestions welcome!
   I think Einstein said that
   Or does the Earth move up?
 This is a really great floor
Just installed steel skeleton of the car/pod elevator. Should be operating next week.  
Across the road and below the ground  
Perspective  
 Nothing to be done, but wait. It's all right here:  
 News on Sunday
Because it's off the wall
_Ty_   Maybe it is time for the man cape to return
  Didn't read it. Might now though.
 Exactly
 Me too
 Yes, but arguably that's worse
And I don't care who knows it. Our love will never die.
Just try one. It's way better than you think.
 A floor that moves
 A ceiling is simply a floor from below
Not as much as tunnels though
They are so underappreciated
They will never let you down
I love floors
 Gary (the snail) is a speed demon. Long way to go before we beat him/her.
 Thanks, but I am
No longer waiting for Godot. It has begun boring and just completed the first segment of tunnel in LA.
Good summary of rocket landing history. There were two successful water landings much earlier, but they didn't survive long.  
 Several tons of force on each fin at high angles of attack &amp; peak heating is the cube of speed, so a Mach 8 reentry is 8X Mach 4. Intense.
 They should on high velocity missions to Geostationary Transfer Orbit
Sped up version of today's rocket landing on the Droneship Just Read the Instructions (guess it…  
 More aero effectiveness to create steep spires on windward side at the grid fin intersections
 Down the road, they will not even be repainted between launches. Aiming to be able to relaunch same orbital rocket booster in &lt;24 hours.
 Getting closer to fairing recovery and reuse. Had some problems with the steerable parachute. Should have it sorted out by end of year.
New titanium grid fins worked even better than expected. Should be capable of an indefinite number of flights with no service.
 Still humans
 Significantly improves control force
Launch at 1:25 delivering 10 satellites for Iridium. Droneship repositioned due to extreme weather. Will be tight.  
Closeup of the titanium grid fins. Not painted, as they glow red hot during a fast reentry.  
  We used to have a (lame) open loop hydraulic system, but that was upgraded to closed about 2 years ago
 Not only that, it has all the wifis and 3G is coming soon
 Rocket was suddenly slammed sideways right before landing. Heavy gust or something malfunctioned onboard. Reviewing telemetry.
 _gilleran True, but that's a minor factor for rockets
 No, but shielding got fragged every flight. More control authority is for Falcon Heavy, but also enables Falcon 9 to land in heavier winds.
 They will, but the hydraulic system is closed loop, so no fluid lost. They do need more power &amp; energy, but rocket has plenty of that.
 Slightly heavier than shielded aluminum, but more control authority and can be reused indefinitely with no touch ups
Flying with larger &amp; significantly upgraded hypersonic grid fins. Single piece cast &amp; cut titanium. Can take reentry heat with no shielding.  
 Sticking to 100
 It's an aluminum honeycomb cartridge, so only a couple of hours to replace
Rocket is extra toasty and hit the deck hard (used almost all of the emergency crush core), but otherwise good
Falcon 9 will experience its highest ever reentry force and heat in today's launch. Good chance rocket booster doesn't make it back.
_artist Technically, Ironyman
 Thanks! Looks cool.
 Damn, I forgot bacon
In life, there are no easy choices …
Do want irony on social media?
Must remember that irony and social media are not friends. Keep forgetting. Dammit.
  Radiation
 Groan
 But RWD with electric is really good in snow (assuming all weather or winter tires), as traction control is far more precise
 Will extend
Over 1000 km should be possible in a 100D with the right tires  
 Will be full regen cooled all the way out to the 3 meter (10 ft) nozzle diameter. Heat flux is nuts &amp; radiative view factor is low.
 No plans to change 100 kWh pack tech. You'll never worry about running out of range. Model 3 pack is about cost reduction, not performance.
No need to rely on scientists for global warming -- just use a thermometer  
  Cool
 That's because the accurate articles are boringly obvious, so they get no press attention
 First approximation of CO2 is production cost, factoring in energy source, so Model 3 obv less CO2 to produce than $35k gas car by a lot
 Calling this cueless would be generous. Much less energy required for lithium-ion batteries &amp; Gigafactory is powered by renewables anyway.
 No plans to change cell form factor for X and S
 This is crazy, but Max Smart mentions Chaos towards the end. Coincidence?
 There's a plot!?
 ujelly?
_Mr_Cool My real phone is an HTC Droid, which I ordered after seeing this ad  
 Nothing beats the shoe phone that is also a real shoe   
 But then I get paid less
 Backup valve shows no sign of leaking, but yeah
If schedule holds there will be two Falcon 9 launches within 48 hours (Cape &amp; Vandenberg) this weekend  
Postponing launch to replace fairing pneumatic valve. It is dual redundant, but not worth taking a chance.  
Promising conversations with  regarding tunnel network that would carry cars, bikes &amp; pedestrians. Permits harder than technology.  

It's time they knew …  
Tesla service rescues a kitten stuck in the bumper     
 So soon you won't believe it
Colonizing Mars (thanks Prof Hubbard for creating this from my talk). Major changes to the plan coming soon.  
Hawthorne, California  
Flying through the Falcon Factory  
Mars V2 plan coming soon, which I think addresses the most fundamental flaw in V1: how to pay for development &amp; operation of giant rockets  
  Radar-only braking on HW1 is getting better with every release. We're hoping to do the demo where it brakes for a UFO in the fog soon.
$300M cost diff between SpaceX and Boeing/Lockheed exceeds avg value of satellite, so flying with SpaceX means satellite is basically free  
 In discussions with the government of India requesting temporary relief on import penalties/restrictions until a local factory is built
US govt testing by  finds Model X to be the safest SUV in history by significant margin  
 That would an interesting target. Would, of course, only count if capable of doing so right off the production line with street legal tires.
  How'd you know?
   Linux kernel update was way harder than anticipated. Giant improvement, but meant way more OS overhead tuning to keep screen frame rate good
   New kernel goes out next weekend, new web browser next month. Radar-only braking is getting steadily better for both HW 1 and 2.
  HW2 Autopilot release should go wide next weekend with additional smoothness improvements to longitudinal control
 We are developing the interplanetary rocket and spaceship to allow anyone to travel to the moon, Mars &amp; beyond, regardless of nationality
 Thanks! Everything we make on the expensive cars goes into developing more affordable cars.
   Thanks for supporting Tesla and the EV mission before anyone had heard of us
   Heard about it. Our experience doing projects with big car companies was not great. They move slowly &amp; are reluctant to adopt new tech.
  I've written two forward-looking master plans, but haven't told the Tesla history of how we got there. Lot of drama … Prob worth doing?
  Mostly right. The feasibility study Martin commissioned about the Lotus Elise was dead wrong though. Only 7% of parts ended up being common.
 _AA_Carmack  Slow at first, then very fast. Def not hover.
_AA_Carmack  The faster, the better. Gravity losses.
  Damn Stonecutters!
 Was no "company", just a (wrong) biz plan to commercialize ACP's Tzero car. No tech or IP, no employees &amp; didn't even own Tesla Motors name.
@__svndee Disruption certainly. Deep AI is the real risk, though, not automation.
_syvari   Exactly
Congrats Robb!  
  So crazy that people were arrested for trying to keep their cars from being destroyed
__ You may have Heard of the person who put it together
Worth watching "Who Killed the Electric Car?" By . Truth is indeed stranger than fiction …  
_FWG  If Zedd is kind enough to send me a list, it's on
 _ All Superchargers are being converted to solar/battery power. Over time, almost all will disconnect from the electricity grid.
 I love Norway, which is the world leader in EV adoption! Great example for the rest of the world.
 Long way to go, but we've convinced most of the auto industry to start EV programs &amp; gave them all our patents to help, so that's something
Nothing to do w govt incentives or making money. Thought 90% prob of losing it all (almost did many times), but it was the only chance.
Since big car companies were killing their EV programs, the only chance was to create an EV company, even tho it was almost certain to fail
They was done against the will of their owners, who held a candlelight vigil all night to protest the death of their cars
Few people know that we started Tesla when GM forcibly recalled all electric cars from customers in 2003 &amp; then crushed them in a junkyard
  That is true. Ludicrous mode is like having pure joy on tap. Nothing else (legal) will get you that.
 Click the left scroll wheel to pause or mute music
  Good point, will add "cancel nav" to voice commands
 Too awesome
   Must ipso facto half not bee
 First of all, I cracked a long time ago. That's not news. Second, yes, I can see time. How did you know?
 Yeah, car should auto play when it gets an exact match, like it does for directions. Will make that change.
  Just confirmed the Tesla DJ station works in Canada
 Cool
 No, it's not!
 Yes
 Tap cancel on the screen
Just tap the voice button on the steering wheel and say "Play Monty Python" or "Navigate home" or anything. Voice commands work pretty well.
 Just depends on whether you like a sedan or SUV. Sedan goes faster, SUV has more room.
 Yeah, coming back
 Coming soon!
 Partly
 Possibly my favorite skit
 Might work in Canada too
  I mean also
 Not yet
 Yeah
In the US, you can ask your Tesla to play any Monty Python (or other comedy) skit. Doesn't work outside US yet.
 It's on the car. Might add it to the Tesla app at some point, so you get it on your phone if you have a Powerwall or Tesla solar.
 My favorite for sure
Try the new Tesla DJ station on streaming radio
 The scene where Brian is saved from the Romans by falling off a tower into a spaceship is the best Deus Ex Machina moment of any movie ever
 All Falcon Heavy cores should be at the Cape in two to three months, so launch should happen a month after that
 Love Monty Python so much

Just wish they would stop sticking pins in voodoo dolls of me. That hurts, ok?
 Yeah
 Yeah
These guys want us to die so bad they can taste it
Could be worse  
 We can either give up hope &amp; sit in traffic hell forever or try something new. The odds of success may be low, but they're better than zero.
 The Boring Company is in Hawthorne and has already approved the permit
_chigae  Thanks :) Such an outrageous lawsuit. People sometimes underestimate strength of US judiciary. Lot of respect for the judge &amp; jury system.
 Read  
 Almost. Falcon Heavy was way harder to develop than it seemed at first.
 Once you add the vintage record player, it's all good
 You're welcome!
A little red wine, vintage record, some Ambien ... and magic!
 A 7 step facial treatment every morning. The mistake people make is stopping at 6.
And um ... not trying to brag or anything, but I think I look good for 500
 Seems that way
 Of course. What base-number system were you using?
That's why the pic is in black and white. Didn't have color back then.
 Yeah, I counted
Tesla shareholder meeting today. Can't believe it's been 1000 years since we went public.  
  This is a metaphor for transparency. Also, f* underwear.
  Obviously
SEC disclosures, etc
I'm not *saying* they're related, but …  
Or is it more about the way you use it?  
 I hope I'm wrong
Probably closer to 2030 to 2040 imo. 2060 would be a linear extrapolation, but progress is exponential.  
 Great comedy! They should write for .
 Most likely
  Also, we will have a very high headcount around each Gigafactory keeping it running. They just won't be doing boring, repetitive tasks.
  Probably closer to four or five factories. Logistics costs mean you want to be close to the end customer.
  California Cabernet
  Wearing anything at all is just a conspiracy by the capitalist running dogs of Big Underwear
He was great though

Was just at the DMV &amp; dude had the actual sloth from Zootopia on his desk  
  Most people don't realize you can see Dragon approach the Space Station from the ground, even in LA
Proud of my Mom ❤️  
 Yeah, pretty much dead center. We painted the target area with radio reflective paint, which helps the radar be more precise.
 Exactly
It's starting to feel kinda normal to reuse rockets. Good. That's how it is for cars &amp; airplanes and how it should be for rockets.
First reflight of a Dragon spacecraft set for later today  
 Good point :)
India commits to sell only electric cars by 2030. It is already the largest market for solar power.  
Under Paris deal, China committed to produce as much clean electricity by 2030 as the US does from all sources today  
Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world.
 Coming soon
 Yeah :)
 Will have no choice but to depart councils in that case
Don't know which way Paris will go, but I've done all I can to advise directly to POTUS, through others in WH &amp; via councils, that we remain
  And then some
  Yeah, it was great!
Piggyback rides around the Opera House  
Sydney is such a beautiful city  
 A lot
 I do via my foundation, which is now 16 years old, but my grants are (almost always) anonymous
 Yes
    Should finish trans-Canada this year. A stop in Swift Current for sure!
 Yes
Comparing Model S vs Model 3  
Old-school fidget spinner back when the only things to play with were squirrels and rocks  
 There will be a combined booster static fire. Maybe a few.
Btw, that cloud is almost entirely steam, including dark parts (like a storm). This is what the launch looks like:  
Falcon Heavy is this times three. One way or another, launch is guaranteed to be exciting ...  
  Will shut that down. The point is to provide something special that only existing owners can give to friends and it is limited to 5 people.
 Only if you want pure joy mainlined straight into your brain
 You are right. Going at max speed. Not much time left.
 Busted
 Will keep the original Bond Lotus sub as-is. That design can't actually convert from car to sub. Have a new design in mind that does.
 True :)
Feel exactly the same way as A.O. Scott. Particularly loved The Spy Who Loved Me  
   All Model S and X cars will have an auto raise and lower function for the steering wheel in a few months.
 I spoke directly with The President three weeks ago about Paris. Many others have too. Cautiously optimistic of a positive decision.
  Interesting idea. Would give a dynamic 360 deg surround view as you're driving. Have this in dev mode. Can be a bit distracting though.
 Early next year. To start with, we're making the simplest Model 3 first, like we did with S. Didn't do it with X, because I was an idiot.
 We could add that function pretty easily from a technical standpoint. Just need to add in the billing software.
 Can be set higher than that for highways, but limited to +5mph or +8km/h off highway (true avg drive speed) for pedestrian &amp; cyclist safety
   Exactly
_lo Still on for end of year. Just software limited. Any Tesla car with HW2 (all cars built since Oct last year) will be able to do this.
  There's just no way. Hundreds of parts and most of wiring harness would have to be replaced. Would cost more to retrofit than trading in.
 HW2. HW1 doesn't have enough sensors and computing power.
 Hopefully June for those too
 S for sure. It is a bigger car.
 I'd highly recommend upgrading to latest Model S (which is approx version 4). Only if you really want a smaller sedan, should you get a 3.
 Maybe I'm misinformed, but I was told that 30% of parts must be locally sourced and the supply doesn't yet exist in India to support that.
 Yeah, control algorithm is safe, but unpleasant. New one is even safer, but super smooth.
 Almost there, plus much improved web browser
 That will be tied to deliveries of the first production cars in July
 Almost there. Probably in a few months.
  You can easily turn it off in the car via settings, but that would beg the question of why you turned it off :)
  Something cool for sure
Excited about the Tesla Autopilot software release rolling out next month. New control algorithm feels as smooth as silk.
 Model 3, Model X &amp; Model S will all have same level of Autopilot capability. It's just a matter of refining the vision &amp; control software.
 Wear underpants
 Will do
 Black and textured slate versions will be
 Yes
 For reason I can't explain, I find  especially odd. Also, not a fan of . Has led too many people astray in valuing securities.
 Still agree with Tim's points. What "you" are is an evolving, mind-body pattern, but there's still a core youness that holds true over time.
 Heisenberg's uncertainty principle &amp; practical limits of simultaneity in transfer make this exact thought experiment impossible, but … yeah
 We got stuck
All the answers to questions you never asked about holes in the ground  
_Brian What pun?
What I love about The Boring Company are the low expectations. Nowhere to go but down.
T-boned in a Model X at 65 mph   
Moonlight Sonata  
Robots that learn by example from   
_ It's sort of like a pickaxe if you use the claw side, but has the added advantage of also hammering
 Gary the snail is like Speedy Gonzales on meth ... or ambien. One of the two. Either way, Godot, our tunnel machine, is still a distant 2nd.
And ... it's done  
Worked in Minecraft. Just sayin ...
 Of course. Why is that even a question?
Imma gonna dig that tunnel with this here hammer
 My grandmother was from Moose Jaw
 Going to a barn raising!
On my cousin's farm in Canada at 17, wearing a hat on a hat  
 Yeah, worked on the farm when I was 17
Family history article. Was born in South Africa, but named after my American great-grandfather.  
 Yes
[Warning, this may cause motion sickness or seizures] This is a test run of our electric sled…  
The race between Gary, our pet snail who lives in a pineapple, and Godot, our tunnel boring…  
Boring machine segments have been lowered into the starter tunnel. Going through final assembly.…  
Cutterhead in operation at standard industry speed. Planning to jack this up by a factor of ten…  
First tunnel for The Boring Company begins ... Full length of first tunnel will run from LAX to…  
Entry hole, staging area and starting tunnel for Boring Machine 1 (aka Godot) now complete  
_ Tesla needs to iterate fast on solar roof prefab/install technology, so all installs will be done by Tesla techs at first
 Third one will be from Frost. Maybe the second.
_Anth Yes. Good.
First machine is Godot. Still waiting ... Don't know why, when or where.
Naming theme for tunnel boring machines will be poems &amp; plays. Decided against plays &amp; poems. Too obvious.
 That's how the tiles sit on the roof. There is no difference in strength for the Tesla tile based on orientation (not like wood).
_Ars This is true. The economics are not yet compelling where housing and utility costs are low and property taxes are high.
Slo-mo hail cannonball impacting Tesla solar roof tile  
 Will do our best. Hopefully, yes.
 Yes
Solar roof can be ordered for almost any country. Deployment this year in the US and overseas next year.
 Black glass smooth and textured will be first. Tuscan and French Slate in about six months.
 U.K. delivery and installation next year
 Yes
Tesla solar glass roof orders open this afternoon. I think it will be great. More in about 10 hours ...
If heat death of the universe is the destination, it really is all about the journey    
 It's a good one
 Thanks for doing it!
Headed to see Guardians 2 w my bro and kids. Loved the first one.
 I do love Banks, but perhaps we should reserve his names for the droneships
 Simple. I like it.
Kinda like Snoop Dug
 I don't want to be presumptuous
I know what you're thinking … then why not "the Third"? Well, I've learned my lesson about 3's.
 By calling it "the Second", it has more credibility
Maybe Ultimate Boring Machine, the Second
 Boring Not Boring
 Good one
 Been done
Thinking about a name for our first tunneling machine …
Was just rereading one of my favorites. So beautiful …  
Close-up of rocket stage separation, fast flip, boostback burn in a ring of fire and then…  
Landing  
Launch and landing of the NRO spy satellite was good. Tough call, as high altitude wind shear was at 98.6% of the theoretical load limit.  
Winds aloft are unusually high (still within structural safety bounds). Worrying, but not a showstopper.  
 Yeah, will probably publish an update in six weeks or so
My boring TED talk  
 Couldn't agree more
 Extremely
Even more boring  
Boring  
   We def want to avoid either, particularly Surface Detail ...
   On it now
   Great food, great ambience and with great friends. We all really enjoyed the visit.
   Will definitely do that on my next trip
Having moo moo at Moo Moo Gold Coast with amberheard,  and   
  That is the aspiration: to avoid AI becoming other.
    Yeah, sorry I missed that. This would only work for 75 kWh packs that are software created to 60, so not 2013.
  Yes
 Tesla will soon be offering a compelling means of upgrading a 60 to a 75
_mau July
 Pickup truck unveil in 18 to 24 months
 Next gen Roadster will be convertible
Tesla Semi truck unveil set for September. Team has done an amazing job. Seriously next level.
  Yeah
 Besides, I already said we'd add more independent members during SCTY merger. Will announce soon, but this group has nothing to do with it.
 This investor group should buy Ford stock. Their governance is amazing ...
Autolist survey finds Tesla used car values are highest and sell fastest  
  Fairing is ~$5M, but that should be reusable this year. Am fairly confident we can reuse upper stage too by late next year to get to 100%.
 Latency should only be 5 min max. Checking ...
Feature coming soon that allows one touch access to all discovered Tesla Easter eggs  
And so the robots spared humanity ...  
   _5 Exactly. Tesla is absurdly overvalued if based on the past, but that's irrelevant. A stock price represents risk-adjusted future cash flows.
  _5 Et tu, Walt?
Stormy weather in Shortville ...
  Coal is dying due to nat gas fracking. It's basically dead.
 It's just a helicopter in helicopter's clothing
 It won't matter
 Pretty good
Why did we waste so much time developing silly rockets? Damn you, aliens! So obtuse! You have all this crazy tech, but can't speak English!?
Technology breakthrough: turns out chemtrails are actually a message from time-traveling aliens describing the secret of teleportation
 Def P100D with Ludicrous+, although the rocket starts going a lot faster after that
 We can def bring it back like Dragon. Just a question of how much weight we need to add.
_addict  Working on it
 Looks like it could do 20% more with some structural upgrades to handle higher loads. But that's in fully expendable mode.
 A lot
 Silliest thing we can imagine! Secret payload of 1st Dragon flight was a giant wheel of cheese. Inspired by a friend &amp; Monty Python.
 Good point, odds go from 0% to &gt;0% :)
Falcon Heavy test flight currently scheduled for late summer
Considering trying to bring upper stage back on Falcon Heavy demo flight for full reusability. Odds of success low, but maybe worth a shot.
 Browser is already a little better. Kernel and browser update in prob 6 weeks or so (lots of underlying changes) with a few nice features.
  Thanks Phil!
Incredibly proud of the SpaceX team for achieving this milestone in space! Next goal is reflight within 24 hours.
If you just downloaded V8.1, tap the the T on center screen three times
  On center screen. Also, center screen *will* show speed as an overlay that changes opacity according to relevance.
 Very few. We have yet to do a China (or Europe) launch of Model 3.
 Glad to have Tencent as an investor and advisor to Tesla
_uk  No
_uk  You won't care
 What gave me away?
_uk No
Here is the latest SpaceX travel ad for the flight around the moon &amp; into deep space. Maybe needs a few edits ...  
Long Neuralink piece coming out on  in about a week. Difficult to dedicate the time, but existential risk is too high not to.
 We cannot make all country versions simultaneously or the production start would be a disaster. You would get first in Norway.
_Kent Yes
 Yes
 I believe so
 Yup
_Ewe_Guy Oh so little faith
 The shorter wheelbase only allows for a 75 kWh pack in Model 3 at current cell/module energy densities
 Yeah
 Start taking orders in April
_angus Yeah, probably a year from now. S will still win on acceleration though, due to having more space for a larger battery.
  Only Model S will have the seven seater option, more cargo space, plus higher range, acceleration, two screens vs one, auto extend handles …
 The Model S produced today is arguably version 4. Let me put it this way: it is the car I will keep driving even after Model 3 arrives.
 If fate is on our side, it will be amazing. Will talk about that in detail next week.
 No problem :)
 Should be summer next year. Sorry, really wish we could get RHD done sooner. We truly are working as fast as we can.
 _trulli    Let me just go fetch my magic wand ...
   First in line for dual motor as soon as we can make it, which is probably in 6 to 9 months.
 Damn straight we do! Coming with 8.1 next week.
First drive of a release candidate version of Model 3  
 It still has one display
 Nothing majorly new that a consumer would notice. Lots of new tech in the design and production process though.
 The more autonomous a car is, the less dash info you need. How often do you look at the instrument panel when being driven in a taxi?
 How about the video we just took of the first Model 3 release candidate drive?
 Yup, machine arrives next month and we start digging the tunnel!
 I think so
  No, we are minimizing configuration complexity to keep the production ramp on schedule. RWD only for early production, just like Model S.
 Tues/Wed
 Because I was a dumb idiot and didn't realize at the time that it would cause confusion
 Tues/Wed next week
_a_book Yes. Model S will always be the fastest Tesla until next gen Roadster, which is a few years away.
 Yes, but not until next year
 Yes. Hardware already on all production S and X cars.
_Miller Sorta. Model 3 is like a BMW 3 series or Audi A4. Model S is like BMW 5 and 6 series, but much faster, more storage space + Autopilot
 How about now?
 Oh Model Y is coming too in a few years. Kinda have to.
 All Tesla cars built since Oct last year will be capable of self-driving as software improves
 Definitely
Model 3 was going to be called Model E, for obvious dumb humor reasons, but Ford sued to block it, so now it is S3X. Totally different :)
 Yes
Model 3 is just a smaller, more affordable version of Model S w less range &amp; power &amp; fewer features. Model S has more advanced technology.
Am noticing that many people think Model 3 is the "next version" of a Tesla, like iPhone 2 vs 3. This is not true.
 Looking forward to playing the game with my kids!
_8 I used to be one. You're welcome. Trying my best, at least. Hope it's a bit useful.
  Just because I'm building a spaceship to get back to my home planet doesn't mean I'm an alien
  The number of extinct single planet civilizations probably exceeds live civs by at least a thousand to one. I'm being optimistic.
 Probably. Either that, simulation, great filter or they are very, very subtle.
 I hope that didn't work
 ~spawn npc.alien
Where are the #%*&gt; aliens?  
 Looks like Tues/Wed for 8.1 release
 Except that isn't actually my house ...
 Perhaps there will be some future bill that makes a difference for Mars, but this is not it.
 I am not. This bill changes almost nothing about what NASA is doing. Existing programs stay in place and there is no added funding for Mars.
    3 is a great car, but definitely Model S
 Good point
 I wish. It's so annoying.
Finally, an explanation for daylight savings that makes sense ...  
 Ok
  It's been a bear to get done, but prob 10 days or so, depending on full speed autosteer test results
_bacon  Looking forward to it. I know it's cliche, but LotR is my favorite book ever :) Want to see the set and take my kids on tour of greater NZ.
   Sure. Just check out my prior tweet on pricing ($250 kWh at pack level). Website will be updated soon, so there is complete transparency.
. Can only happen with your support, and working closely with key govt and utility leaders who are strongly committed to trying new approaches
Just wanted to write a note of appreciation to the many Australians who came out in support of the battery plan, especially 
_pton16 I love Wikipedia. Just gets better over time.
 Answer is complex for electric motors. We use an AC induction motor fed by a DC pack thru an IGBT inverter, which kinda "digitizes" DC power
 High voltage DC is for sure the best way to transmit electricity over long distances. Good explanation at  
Ironically, direct current is the right approach today, even though alternating was right in the past. Solar power &amp; electronics both DC.
You're most welcome. Very exciting to discuss the future of electricity. Renewables + storage arguably biggest disruption since DC to AC.  
 Just spoke with , Premier of South Australia. Very impressed. Govt is clearly committed to a smart, quick solution.
 Yes, but shipping, taxes/tariffs and installation labor vary by country, as those costs are beyond our control
 $250/kWh at the pack level for 100MWh+ systems. Tesla is moving to fixed and open pricing and terms for all products.
 Tesla will get the system installed and working 100 days from contract signature or it is free. That serious enough for you?
 Will send you one
 Self-hatred
Thanks JJ!

Thank you for the lovely letter. That sounds like a great idea. We'll do it!  
SpaceX could not do this without NASA. Can't express enough appreciation.  
 This is not true. TM works for a lot of people and that's great, but I've maybe done it 7 or 8 times ever.
Fly me to the moon ... Ok  
SpaceX announcement tomorrow at 1pm PST
 of course
 maybe one of those too
Roller coasters are awesome
 Something on a tristate border might work. Gigafactory plus nearby supporting supply chain needs a very large workforce.
  Good chance it will
    Exactly :)
   I didn't pose for it (hopefully that's obvious) or want me on cover. Tunnel boring machine pic wd be way better
 Minor improvements update this weekend. High speed autosteer in about two weeks.
Excellent Tesla Model X review  
Just posted a video  

Baby came back  
 no
_Thai System was green for launch. I called it off.
 They are often right, but, in this case, we have already retired so much R&amp;D risk on Dragon 2, that I feel very confident of 2018.
 Uses high pressure bleed off the fuel side (RP-1 kerosene) turbopump, so no dedicated pump or fluid needed
Btw, 99% likely to be fine (closed loop TVC wd overcome error), but that 1% chance isn't worth rolling the dice. Better to wait a day.
 Not obviously related to the (very tiny) helium leak, but also not out of the question
If this is the only issue, flight would be fine, but need to make sure that it isn't symptomatic of a more significant upstream root cause
All systems go, except the movement trace of an upper stage engine steering hydraulic piston was slightly odd. Standing down to investigate.
Counting down to the first SpaceX launch from the Apollo 11 launch pad tomorrow morning (webcast…  
spacex's photo  
Provided Dragon 2 demo missions go well, SpaceX is highly confident of being able to fly US astronauts in 2018  
Looks like we are go for launch. Added an abort trigger at T-60 secs for pressure decay of upper stage helium spin start system.
Investigating a (very small) leak in the upper stage. If ok, will launch tomorrow.  
  Yes, but only deep in solid rock, where the walls are self-supporting and concrete reinforcements arguably aren't needed
 It's much easier to do the CGI that way
Daylight rocket launch &amp; landing at the Cape this weekend. Will be the 1st SpaceX flight from the Apollo launch pad.  
 I used that one :)
Ok, what are some good ones? Will have to meter these out. Hopefully, kids can't die from groaning too much.
  They are doing India proud
 You may come to regret that request :)
 Yeah, exactly. So that makes it cool, right!?
 Yeah, awesome achievement by ISRO. Very impressive!
Apparently, there is this thing called "Dad jokes" and I make them
 You're right, I can't hide any more! I am Irony Man...
 they were earlier drafts that I accidentally published. I said the same thing a week already.
In appreciation, Tesla is providing all repair costs free of charge and expedited.  
Congrats to the Tesla owner who sacrificed damage to his own car to bring a car with an unconscious driver safely to a stop!
 Best place to watch is on the Cape causeway
  Sounds like the Tesla Powerwall (consumer) and Powerpack (utility/commercial) might be useful
Falcon 9 rocket now vertical at Cape Canaveral on launch complex 39-A. This is the same launch…  
   Exactly. What this person said is untrue.
   Please check your facts. Tesla and SpaceX joined as soon as we received the filing, which was Monday.
 of course it will
 Should all be uploaded by next month
 Motor Trend could only achieve 2.4 sec when they tested the Porsche 918
 I don't know what make you think that's a rocket. It's completely covered in a tarpaulin...
George Schultz and Jim Baker article in  regarding a carbon tax  
 yes
_ishan Hoping for summer this year
 yes, altitude improves performance for electric. Opposite of combustion cars.
  No, will be lower. Wheelbase can't fit 100.
 Also, Tesla service can remove front trunk liner if you don't use it and improve performance further
 No plans to take X, S (or 3) above 100 kWh. Semi necessarily and pickup truck maybe will go above.
 Take out the floor mats and its 2.27. MT said everything had to be standard production.
_pi yes
Production Tesla Model S P100DL sets Motor Trend all-time world record to 60 mph in 2.27 sec  
Signing off now. That was more than enough Twitter trouble for one morning!
_  No rare earth metals in battery
  Almost ready
 App update is about two weeks out. Linux kernel and browser update probably a month or so. HW2 Autopilot has priority.
 Yes, but Model 3 is the overwhelming priority
_ellis I will post an article he wrote half a century ago about flying through Africa and Asia in his plane. One of my favorite things.
  Almost there. We are just being very careful with the rollout.
 A lot of terrible things could happen in four years of extremism. Do you really want another war? That's where extremism leads.
 Yeah, it is hard to convey complex ideas in 140 chars and tone is lost in text
  People should push to have as many moderates advising the President as possible. Blind hate is never the right answer.
  Rolling out a new update today.
 We should try our best
 Really? Ok, I will work harder on thinking first and tweeting second. Sorry for anything thoughtless.
  I just had three coffees :)
  Mars is critical for the long-term survival of humanity and life on Earth as we know it
  Numeric
 Gravimetric energy density of batteries and achieving a high cell mass fraction
 I love Canada! I'm half Canadian. My Mom was born in Regina. My grandfather (her Dad) was American, born in Minnesota.
 Me too. I hope to get back to regularly scheduled programming soon ...
 I agree, great country! Looking forward to taking my kids for a visit. I've heard it is incredibly beautiful.
 True. Me being one of them :)
 Not perfect &amp; cd be better, but 10th out of 200+ countries with only a 0.08 diff to "1st" place means it's essentially on par
 Fair point, sorry
Activists should be pushing for more moderates to advise President, not fewer. How could having only extremists advise him possibly be good?
  Exactly
 Norway is great on all levels. Love Norway!
 Yeah. And Twitter is a hater Hellscape.
 Good grief, I'm not "working" for Trump. I'm trying to provide advice that helps take things in a more positive direction.
  Actually, I think it's kinda cool :)
  Isn't that basically like having a jury of peers? That is a default option in the US.
 Those countries have strong justice systems, but I'd put them roughly on par with US. That rating system conflates many factors.
 Did you read my tweets? I attacked it hard. Did not defend.
 You're right. Politics is a no-win situation. Somebody is going to hate what you say no matter what that is.
 Also good. There are several that are on par with US. Just don't think any are better. People confuse laws with courts.
 Mostly anti-drug laws
 Exactly
 The laws need to change. Judges are responsible for evaluating whether an action breaks the law, not making law.
 The remedy for that is changing the law
 Ok, but what's up the wigs?
 There are many good legal systems on par with US. Just don't know any that are better.
 True!
Many in America don't realize how proud they should be of the legal system. Not perfect, but nowhere is the cause of justice better served.
Walking down the street and saw this  
  I wish!
 Then so be it. I'd rather do what I believe is right, than do what appears right simply to avoid criticism.
  Wow, cool!
 That's exactly what I thought. Love Half-Life.
_lontana Nuances are important :)
26 ft diameter tunnel running 2 miles under D.C.  
 Really don't want to get in politics. I just want to help invent and develop technologies that improve lives. Feels so bizarre.
 Yes, for now, but this should be addressed on all fronts: judicial, legislative and executive.
In addition, I again raised climate. I believe this is doing good, so will remain on council &amp; keep at it. Doing otherwise would be wrong.
At my request, the agenda for yesterday's White House meeting went from not mentioning the travel ban to having it be first and foremost
  First I've heard of this meeting. Will find out why.
 maybe
Video of MIT's entrant into the SpaceX Hyperloop competition. Air has been removed from the  Hyperloop tube to almost vacuum conditions.  
Minecraft  
 Yes. Green cards &amp; dual citizens already ok. Work &amp; spousal visas not yet, but hopefully soon. This is separate from judicial action.
There has already been and there will be progress on this matter
Regarding the meeting at the White House:  
__world yes
  Headline &amp; article is misleading. I said it won't be retracted (ie withdrawn by Pres). It may be revoked by judicial or legislative means.
  Yes, I believe that is critical to ensure a good future for humanity
Top AI researchers agree on principles for developing benefical AI  
 I agree with creating great jobs, restoring US strength as a great manufacturer of products and anything that makes the future exciting
  Yeah, sorry about that :)
 Yes, the order is still bad, but it is always important to read the source material
Reading the source material is better than reading other people's opinions about the source material  
 Strategic &amp; Policy Forum
  Exactly. There is no possibility of retraction, but there is possibility of modification. It's just a non-zero possibility. Don't know more.
Please read immigration order. Lmk specific amendments. Will seek advisory council consensus &amp; present to President.  
 It is not
Many people negatively affected by this policy are strong supporters of the US. They've done right,not wrong &amp; don't deserve to be rejected.
The blanket entry ban on citizens from certain primarily Muslim countries is not the best way to address the country’s challenges
  This is silly. If adding lanes actually did make it worse, that would imply removing lanes makes it better. Obv not true.
And we start digging the tunnel tonight  
Hyperloop pod race happening this weekend at SpaceX HQ (near LAX). We built a ~mile long vacuum tube on our campus big enough to fit people.
_official Yeah, am hearing this from a lot of people &amp; it's getting me down. I'm just trying to make a positive contribution &amp; hope good comes of it.
 Earthquakes tend to have the biggest effect on the surface, like waves on water. That's why LA can have a (lame, but getting better) subway.
@_wsimson Starting across from my desk at SpaceX. Crenshaw and the 105 Freeway, which is 5 mins from LAX
_ellis Yup
 Maybe next month
Exciting progress on the tunnel front. Plan to start digging in a month or so.
Rex Tillerson supports a carbon tax. This is what is really needed to move the needle.  
 I'm just saying that we should see what happens first. The actions may be surprising.
 No they don't
 Was wondering what those were
Sigh
_McLean That may be a difficult award to decline
Tillerson also said that “the risk of climate change does exist” and he believed “action should be taken"
 ... on how to address threats of climate change. They do require a global response."
 Tillerson at his confirmation hearing: "I think it’s important that the United States maintain its seat at the table in the conversation ...
 Ok, fine. Soldier 76. My dark secret is out ...
 I share The Economist's opinion that he should be given the benefit of the doubt unless his actions prove otherwise
 Rex is an exceptionally competent executive, understands geopolitics and knows how to win for his team. His team is now the USA.
 This may sound surprising coming from me, but I agree with The Economist. Rex Tillerson has the potential to be an excellent Sec of State.
_arexding There will be a software update this weekend that improves self-calibration ability
 3 months maybe, 6 months definitely
 Yes, safety should improve significantly due to autonomy features, even if regs disallow no driver present
Auto steer limited to 45 mph on highways for now, i.e. heavy traffic, where it is needed most. Limit will raise as we get more data.
 Autonomy capability should improve via OTA every 2 to 6 weeks
 For now
 The 100D price takes into account exchange rate shifts, whereas other vehicle prices haven't yet been adjusted
  Yes. Block 5 is the final upgrade of the Falcon architecture. Significantly improves performance &amp; ease of reusability. Flies end of year.
 If we applied resources to doing super complex retrofits, our pace of innovation would drop dramatically
 Tesla will never stop innovating. People are buying the wrong car if they expect this. There will be major revs every 12 to 18 months.
 Yes
 Unfortunately, that would require stripping down the entire car and replacing 300+ parts. Wish there was an easy way.
Giant X made of Model X's by Tesla owners in China!  
 Expendable. Future flights will go on Falcon Heavy or the upgraded Falcon 9.
 Car won't complete camera calibration. Working on software solution to adjust image crop dynamically, so camera more robust to pitch angle.
Autopilot for HW2 rolling out to all HW2 cars today. Please be cautious. Some cars will require adjustment of camera pitch angle by service.
Validating a GPU driver fix and camera pitch angle health check for HW2
 Similar to SpaceX, the T is like a cross section of an electric motor, just as the X is like a rocket trajectory
 Our target is a 90% reduction with HW2 as the software matures
 Not specifically, but there have been several incidences of pedestrian and bicyclist lives saved by Autopilot
  It might. Am not sure.
 Looking good so far. Should roll out this weekend.
Report highlight: “The data show that the Tesla vehicles crash rate dropped by almost 40 percent after Autosteer installation.”
Final report on Autopilot issued by  is very positive  
 One million
Falcon before launch  
 Not the ideal ending
 There will be many improvements to HW1 over the course of the year
 Yes
_Ashcraft Yeah, it has a lot of potential
Rewatched "Ghost in the Shell" and the end of "Colossus: The Forbin Project"  
HW2 Autopilot now downloading to all HW2 cars, but in non-actuating mode to assess reliability. If looks good, actuation by end of week.
  Rotates 180 degrees and does a retro burn
  It does
Liftoff  
All satellites deployed
Mission looks good. Started deploying the 10 Iridium satellites. Rocket is stable on the droneship.
  Have you tried steam engines? They are amazing.
 Sarah should be in contact with you soon about doing a benchmark test
   It is
 Hopefully, early next week. Results from limited release look good so far. Trying our best to be super careful.
 Good point. 2.34 would be a production Tesla. Stripped down, maybe as low as 2.1.
  It will
Promising early results from the Ludricrous Easter egg. Looks like 0 to 60 mph in 2.34 sec (Motor Trend spec) might be achievable...
 If the results look good from the latest point release, then we are days away from a release to all HW1 and to all HW2 early next week
 The least cool characters...it's embarrassing
 It will in an upcoming release later this year
 Tesla's approach to building an autonomy platform is focused on high compute efficiency machine learning. Primarily vision w radar &amp; sonar.
_mantyla  Increasing capacity at existing Supercharger locations now has top priority. Some are overflowing while a nearby one is empty.
 Longitudinal control will, but lateral (steering) control will cap at 35 mph for a bit longer. Will raise after full fleet data rolls in.
If all looks good, HW2 Autopilot functionality will switch from shadow to active mode by end of week for cars beyond initial 1000
New rev for Autopilot HW2 rolling out Mon to first 1000 &amp; to rest of fleet in shadow mode. Also improves HW1 and enables Ludicrous+.
  That was a great game
   via 
Hold-down firing of  Falcon 9 at Vandenberg Air Force completed. All systems are go for launch next week.
HW2 Autopilot software uploading to 1000 cars this eve. Will then hold to verify no field issues and upload to rest of fleet next week.
  Late Jan, along with Linux kernel upgrade
 Yes, but held up by Autopilot . It def works tho in shaving 0.1 sec off 0-60mph &amp; 1/4 mile. If AP goes tmrw, then perf upgrade goes Thurs.
Resolving an Autopilot HW2 bug that shows up when booting from a subzero cold-soak. If that fix works, software will start uploading tmrw.
Churchill (non) quotes   
 Almost there. Undergoing final validation. Might go out in next few days.
Deus ex machina on the center screen when it ends
 Occasional existential dread is inevitable if you think at all about the future
  Yes, grid won't be needed for moderate use Superchargers in non-snowy regions
 A mere 350 kW ... what are you referring to, a children's toy?
 Brain is full right now and that's a hard one
 There are some installed already, but full rollout really needs Supercharger V3 and Powerpack V2, plus SolarCity. Pieces now in place.
 If you don't like the P100DL, you can give it back
 Good idea
 Yes
 Should complete in 2017. One is def planned for Swift Current, near my cousin's wheat farm where I had my 18th bday.
 It is keyed off the volume of music in the car. If you turn that down w left scroll wheel, it will be quieter.
 Typing Mars after holding down the T symbol on the center console works on S and X. Also try renaming your car 42.
Make sure your car is connected to wifi for the update. Will update over its cell connection too, but takes much longer.
To activate the Model X holiday performance, just type holidays or ModelXmas after pressing the logo. Also, Mars.  
 Looking promising for next week
 No major precipitating event, but people in general were going a bit too fast on winding roads
 Some years away, but yes
 Will be restored soon where there is a lead vehicle, ie you are being overtaken a lot due to true traffic speed being higher than the sign
 Night is easy. Twilight is hardest.
 That is actually rolling out to all Model X's right now
 Yes
 8.1, which hopefully goes out next week.
 Hoping for next week. Also going through validation.
Looks like we might be ready to rollout most of Autopilot functionality for HW2 towards the end of next week
Tesla receives highest owner satisfaction score of any carmaker in Consumer Reports survey  
Tesla Autopilot vision neural net now working well. Just need to get a lot of road time to validate in a wide range of environments.
 In work
    Tesla software team is working seven days a week to complete testing and validation. Getting close.
 Should start changing soon
I am actually going to do this
 We are going to modify this so that people only pay a fee if most bays are occupied. If the site is basically deserted, no problem to park.
Boring, it's what we do
It shall be called "The Boring Company"
Traffic is driving me nuts. Am going to build a tunnel boring machine and just start digging...
 You too :)
 You're right, this is becoming an issue. Supercharger spots are meant for charging, not parking. Will take action.
Forming a rocket nozzle  
A life well lived  
How do we know this story isn't fake? Unfortunately, it is probably true.  
Model S smashes into semi truck trailer and lifts it off the ground. Driver walks away.  
 about three weeks and it will get rolled out incrementally in monthly releases
 yes
   at least some of them
_88 That doesn't make sense. Will look into it.
  About 3 weeks
_88 Backlog of 5 seat foldflat config. 6 seat can be made earlier. Actually my fav version.
 Love the pic tho
Can anyone uncover who is really writing these fake pieces? Can't be skankhunt42. His work is better than this.  
  perfect
Longer version of self-driving demo with Paint It Black soundtrack   
  That and Paint It Black will both be uploaded for free as Easter (holiday?) eggs
  yes
 -2
Tesla self-driving AI with the Benny Hill option package  
 Consequences of population implosion greatly underestimated. Upside down demographic pyramid can't support social services.
   big mobile app update coming with 8.1 next month
Vote tally shows ~85% of unaffiliated shareholders in favor of the Tesla/SolarCity merger! Thanks for believing.
_9077 sounds right
 All P100D vehicles produced to date, as well as new. This is purely a software optimization.
Model X numbers should also improve by 0.1 sec on 0 to 60 and 1/4 mile
Looks like the Model S P100D Easter egg will allow it to do 0 to 60 mph in 2.4 sec and a 10.6 sec 1/4 mile via software update next month
 Wow, thanks. We won't let you down.
_AA_Carmack we could enable that, although the cameras use grey, grey, grey, red detection, so it would look a little greyish red :)
Love you too!  
 a bit like that, but hopefully a more meaningful role for humans
Playing Amish Paradise in my Tesla
 Both UV and IR (for heat) reflective. I burn easily &amp; then my nose looks like Rudolph the reindeer, so I totally understand.
 No, but maybe a light tartan. Plaid is reserved for the next gen Roadster.
 I like humanity
_Ryan there will be something special
 Tesla will def absorb SolarCity debt. Altho extremely unlikely, I would pay it personally if need be. Debts must be honored.
  My kids and I are having a great time!
  next software update fixes that
 might have an early access release ready by then
 now wouldn't that be interesting :)
Here is how to vote your Tesla and SolarCity shares:  
 hmmm
_p one day ...
 it is not actually left-handed
@_andyoneal _Gardi unless we do a deployable solar shield like a retractable hard top
 currently cycles radio favs. Next software release cycles between favs.
Forgot to mention there will be a P100D Ludicrous Easter egg soon that uncorks the full performance
 _Gardi no
 use buttons on left side of steering wheel
 _TopGear Thanks!
 I'm the only author, so, love or hate it, that's me. I've learned some lessons though, such as tweeting on Ambien isn't wise.
 I personally like the 6 seat best, but the new 5 allows the entire back to fold flat. A small family could camp there!
_Gardi We will probably offer that as an option
_Gardi exactly
  _TopGear  Loving this thread :)
_kann Primarily aluminium with hot-stamped boron steel reinforcements. B pillar has a glass overlay.
 Excellent safety in rollover (5 star+). That was what took so long to develop.
In addition, we reinforced the surrounding body structure for improved safety (was already 5 star in all categories).
I highly recommend the new all glass roof on the Model S. This was very hard to develop, but it makes the interior feel amazing.  
 first solar roof deployments will start next summer
Will be on  with Ron Baron in about half an hour  
Great Model X article by _TopGear!  
Institutional Shareholder Services, world's top independent evaluator, recommends in favor of Tesla-SolarCity merger  
  Congratulations to China on the successful launch of the LM 5 heavy lift rocket!
 There would def be millions of agents simultaneously doing a Monte Carlo sim &amp; combining the results to build a map of weaknesses
 good chance
Only a matter of time before advanced AI is used to do this. Internet is particularly susceptible to a gradient descent algo.  
 yes
 yes
 strongly net positive
Solar glass tiles can also incorporate heating elements, like rear defroster on a car, to clear roof of snow and keep generating energy
 yes
Should mention that the Tesla solar roof is robust against any weather, incl heavy hail. Also, higher insulating value than a standard roof.
Pushing start to ~5:45 to allow more people to arrive
Unveil happening at sunset, because that's when ...
Solar roof plus Powerwall 2.0 launch event will be webcast live on   at 5:30pm PDT tomorrow
 Several UI improvements across the board in 8.01 (next few weeks) and 8.1 in Dec
Solar roof unveil now at 5:30pm sharp (need daylight, for obvious reasons) California time tomorrow.
Dear cult members, I love you  
 fixing, but in a slightly different way
 yeah, great questions
This will be under /r/spacex, not the general AMA. Meant to be supplemental to the IAC talk.
AMA at &lt;ahem&gt; 3pm California time
Must be a coincidence  
  no, that's real
Using the automated solid metal snake charger :)  
_BIT yes
When you want your car to return, tap Summon on your phone. It will eventually find you even if you are on the other side of the country
When searching for parking, the car reads the signs to see if it is allowed to park there, which is why it skipped the disabled spot
_with1t yes
 8 cameras, 12 ultrasonars and radar all flush mounted and body color. Beauty remains.
Tesla drives itself (no human input at all) thru urban streets to highway to streets, then finds a parking spot  
 latest autonomous hardware allows for easy computer upgrade
Should mention that retrofitting to full self-driving hardware is very difficult. Cost delta is more than buying a new car. Wish it weren't.
 Still working on the video. Fully autonomous drive demo only completed several hours ago.
 of course
Tesla expects to demonstrate self-driven cross-country trip next year   via 
  true and underappreciated
Will post video of a Tesla navigating a complex urban environment shortly. That was what took the extra couple of days.
 This is also what I was alluding to by Model 3 part 2
According to experts, Hyperloop is both obvious and impossible. Maybe pick one or the other?  
Tesla announcement goes live at 5pm California time. 30 minutes of media Q&amp;A to follow.
Calculated attempt to deceive Florida voters about solar vote uncovered by Miami Herald  
Tesla does 0-60 mph in 2.7 seconds in the rain   via 
 This is because the first 12 months of production are sold out
Moving the Tesla announcement to Wednesday. Needs a few more days of refinement.
  thanks!
 Umm...Autobahn?
 obviously wrong
  Not actually based on science. Objective data shows Autopilot is safer than manually driven cars.
  Utter nonsense. Empirical evidence is what matters, not random speculation.
   Sounds like a great move!
Good for Germany!  
 That's why we need to accelerate solar power
Real fraud going on is denial of climate science. As for "subsidies", Tesla gets pennies on dollar vs coal. How about we both go to zero?
Coal-mining CEO: 'Tesla is a fraud'   via 
Translating what actually happened in the debates...  
 _RBX impact velocity and center of mass of colliding object make a big difference
_kappler Probably not then either
Would also like to correct expectations that Tesla/SolarCity will need to raise equity or corp debt in Q4. Won't be necessary for either.
Tesla product unveiling on the 17th (unexpected by most), followed by Tesla/SolarCity on the 28th
 I agree. Speed of light is a point in favor of the sim.
US automotive deaths rose 10% to 17,775 in first half of 2016, approx 1 every 88 million miles  
Cumulative Tesla Autopilot miles now at 222 million
 lot of circumstantial evidence for that hypothesis
 Thus I deserve to be top of the target list? Maybe there's a dude who really digs the color gold who is slightly more deserving…
  Yeah, and several others at various times. My twitter list is trimmed down to almost all news/comedy these days.
 When we upgrade the core Linux OS to 4.4, which is probably December
Sabotage of the rocket is unlikely, but this article has some great theories :)  
 True, it is a no-win situation
 I use twitter for news orgs. My Insta has same women as men. What's up with the phoney PC police axe-grinding?
  Exactly. Those are the best ones.
 Going out this week for X and outside North America
Wow, this tweet is like a Rorschach test
No irony or uhh "shade" meant here. T's character is excellent and well-played. Worth seeing.
Some of the future episodes of Westworld feature my ex. Talulah does a great job of playing a deadly sexbot :)
More Kerbal!  
   yes
 Will do a Reddit AMA on Mars in the next week or two
  Corrective action taken. Seems to be limited to a small number of cases, but thanks for letting me know.  
 Am tracking this down ... Super important to be fair. There are zero discounts even for family and friends.
 Something messed up here. Tesla policy is equal pricing for all. No discounts ever unless a car is a floor model or was damaged.
 Three cable elevator on a crane. Wind force on Mars is low, so don't need to worry about being blown around.
A Million Humans Could Live on Mars By the 2060s   via 
Good article on the interplanetary transport system on Gizmodo  
Waiting for everyone to reach their seats and get settled. Starting in 5 to 10.
12m rocket booster diameter, 17m spaceship diameter, 122 m stack height
Full Interplanetary Tranport System presentation in ~30 mins. Simulation preview:  
 Meant to say 200 AR for production vac engine. Dev will be up to 150. Beyond that, too much flow separation in Earth atmos.
_AA_Carmack yup
 yes
 yes
  pretty close
 382s is with a 150 area ratio vacuum (or Mars ambient pressure) nozzle. Will go over specs for both versions on Tues.
Chamber pressure is almost 3X Merlin, so engine is about the same size for a given area ratio
Production Raptor goal is specific impulse of 382 seconds and thrust of 3 MN (~310 metric tons) at 300 bar
Mach diamonds  
SpaceX propulsion just achieved first firing of the Raptor interplanetary transport engine  
Good Forbes article on Tesla/SolarCity merger  
Aiming for Oct 28 unveil in SF Bay Area of new Tesla/SolarCity solar roof with integrated Powerwall 2.0 battery and Tesla charger.
   yes. Also, only worked if you logged on to a malicious hotspot &amp; used browser. No customers were hacked.
 thanks for ordering a car!
Tesla is sometimes criticized for government support, but all US car companies (plus some non) got loans and only Tesla has paid its back  
  I read a story about a father whose son died incredibly quickly. Can be as little as half an hour in hot sun.
 currently stops at 20% state of charge. This number will be configurable.
 "smart" preconditioning should be less dumb in 8.0
 also, the Tesla is poison free!
 all cars
_Helme can't always detect babies and pets
Can be turned on or off. V8.1 will allow always-on min and max temps to be set.
Tesla keeps temp below 40C/105F by automatically venting cabin &amp; turning on AC when needed. Can do this for up to a year on a full charge.
My favorite new feature is the always-on max temp control for keeping kids and pets safe from overheating.
This is a major overhaul on almost every level compared to V7.
V8.0 starts downloading tonight. Release will be gradual to make sure there aren't small regressions. Many car configs, many environments.
 Yeah, definitely one of my favorite names
    its it is
Preview of the  interplanetary transport system at   
  that's a great one
 sounds like the right name for the rocket booster
 That is my favorite fictional spaceship. Powered by improbability!
 yeah!
Maybe Ultimate Spaceship, Version 2? Mostly because it is not the ultimate and there isn't a version 1.
I love the suggestions!
 sounds about right
Turns out MCT can go well beyond Mars, so will need a new name…
 yes
  won't affect performance
  Hoping to start WW rollout of 8.0 on Wednesday if no last minute issues discovered.
Tesla P100D put to the test by Drag Times  
  Glad you like it! I think we will probably stop at 100 kWh on battery size.
Turns out ExxonMobil not 100% forthcoming about climate change   via 
Tesla Model S loses 28% after 50k miles, a Mercedes S-Class will lose 38%, a BMW 7-series will lose 40%, and an Audi A8 will lose 41%.
Comprehensive study by Autolist shows that a Tesla retains its value far better than gasoline sedans  
Scientists: Earth Endangered by New Strain of Fact-Resistant Humans   via 
Climate change explained in comic book form by xkcd   
Will do some press Q&amp;A on Autopilot post at 11am PDT tmrw and then publish at noon. Sorry about delay. Unusually difficult couple of weeks.
Thoughtful Op-ed in Space News much appreciated  
 Most likely true, but we can't yet find it on any vehicle sensors
Will get back to Autopilot update blog tomorrow.
    We have not ruled that out.
 nope, it wasn't me
Particularly trying to understand the quieter bang sound a few seconds before the fireball goes off. May come from rocket or something else.
Support &amp; advice from , ,  &amp; others much appreciated. Please email any recordings of the event to report.com.
Important to note that this happened during a routine filling operation. Engines were not on and there was no apparent heat source.
Still working on the Falcon fireball investigation. Turning out to be the most difficult and complex failure we have ever had in 14 years.
 It's been a little crazy lately
 yes. This seems instant from a human perspective, but it really a fast fire, not an explosion. Dragon would have been fine.
Finishing Autopilot blog postponed to  end of weekend
Loss of Falcon vehicle today during propellant fill operation. Originated around upper stage oxygen tank. Cause still unknown. More soon.
 Not allowed, according to HK regulations. Happy to do it if regs change.
We need to do one more minor rev on 8.0 and then will go to wide release in a few weeks
Writing post now with details. Will publish on Tesla website later today.
Major improvements to Autopilot coming with V8.0 and 8.1 software (std OTA update) primarily through advanced processing of radar signals
 uh oh
Thanks for the longstanding faith in SpaceX. We very much look forward to doing this milestone flight with you.  
 one of my favorite games as a kid
 Making progress. Maybe something to announce in a few months. Have played all prior Deus Ex. Not this one yet.
Journalist Q&amp;A for 30 mins and embargo ends at 12:30
Tesla product announcement at noon California time today
Owner account of a Model X severely  impacted by a Yukon  
Correlation is not causality or ... is it?  
Sunday morning: to bake or not to bake cookies -- that is not even a question. Definitely bake.
Congrats to  on her novel, "Acts of Love"! All characters – even those based on real people – are entirely fictional …
Over the entrance of   
  true
Will try out  this weekend. Maybe reality is just a series of nested simulations all the way down ...  
Would like to thank  and Jensen for donating the first DGX-1 AI supercomputer to  in support of democratizing AI technology
 Yeah. Movie still enjoyable due to some great characters, but plot &amp; editing could've been better. Really needed more Joker+Harley.
Sure feels weird to find myself defending the robots
 Never. There is no product rationale for doing so.
 probably makes sense to build off the pickup truck chassis
  Model Y (compact SUV) off Model 3 chassis. Tesla Bus/Minibus/Spacebus off Model X.
 _Ryan   good point
_Ryan   I think we should be inconsistent in our naming conventions after Model Y
View of Dragon from _Station cupola  
We are definitely patenting this idea  
  glad people had a great time!
  not bad, I like those suggestions
Gigafactory in units of hamster  
Some good guessing by . The Tesla Minibus will be built on a Model X chassis. People density potential is surprisingly high.
Will be live streaming the Gigafactory launch party tonight. Check   this eve.
The libertarian argument for a carbon tax  
Good summary of yesterday's Gigafactory Q&amp;A with JB, Yamada-San and me  
Should mention that Gigafactory will be fully powered by clean energy when complete &amp; include battery recycling
 happy birthday!
Insurance premiums expected to decline by 80% due to driverless cars   
Letter from basically every scientific org in the United States to Congress about climate change  
Via : Sun-Powered Airplane Completes Historic Trip Around The World  
_AA_Carmack Maybe as a future optimization. Would only matter if it was extremely big.
 as long as I'm alive

Looking forward to the Gigafactory opening party on Friday next week. The scale blows me away every time I see it.
Autopilot prevents serious injury or death of a pedestrian in NY (owner anecdote confirmed by vehicle logs)  
 Jerome is driving Tesla Semi &amp; doing a great job with his team. At Daimler, he led their most successful semi truck program ever.
 It's inspired by some of the California Custom VW combi design art
 Great game. Whole Fallout series is amazing.
 Both should have been done under the same corporate umbrella from the beginning
Tesla Master Plan, Part Deux  
 now 2Pac
California time
Post should go live on Tesla website around 5pm
 yup
 busted
Except for the tweet about large amounts of crack (actually just small amounts)
Not easy to convey irony in a tweet
 Lana
Finishing off the plan while listening to the soundtrack from Gatsby. Seems appropriate...
Will be working at Tesla on Autopilot &amp; Model 3 today, then aiming to pull an all-nighter and complete the master product plan
 I am!
Returning from Cape Canaveral to California...
Really tempting to redesign upper stage for return too (Falcon Heavy has enough power), but prob best to stay focused on the Mars rocket
Can't wait to see all three cores of Falcon Heavy come back for landings! First two will be almost simultaneous.  
Landing  
  free Babel fish provided
Bit of a distraction yesterday. Working on plan today.
Out on LZ-1. We just completed the post-landing inspection and all systems look good. Ready to fly again.  
Falcon on LZ-1 at Cape Canaveral  
 Thanks. Exactly. Some in the press think they're so much smarter than Tesla owners that "they know better". Makes no sense.
 V8 will be our biggest release since v1, so taking longer to refine. Awesome on every level. Meeting w design team every day.
Tesla customers are v smart &amp; don't want media speaking on their behalf abt Autopilot. Recent poll: 0.0% want it disabled -- not 0.1%, 0.0%.
  It can at moderate range, but our ultrasonics are very good at human (or anything &gt;= water density) detection
 Improved fan speed algorithm coming soon. Doesn't need to be so loud.
Great rebuttal by a Tesla owner to those calling for Autopilot to be disabled. Was written with zero input from us.  
_K_Berg That is a very good point!
Have to focus on tonight's  launch. Will post Tesla (master) product plan afterwards.
Btw, want to thank both Bosch and MobilEye for their help and support in making Autopilot better. Please direct all criticism at Tesla.
Promising call today with , maker of our radar sensor. Looks like significant improvements possible via OTA software update.
 much appreciated
 Usually true. We need more sane and reasonable people making their voice heard.
Sensible article on Autopilot by  guardian  
  On the other hand I do answer a toy phone like it's real
  large amounts of crack
 6 hours normally, but a lot less these days
Sunday is the end of the week :)
 yes
 good up to ~160km/h
Our radar is using a wavelength of 3.9mm. A good size for both decent resolution and rain penetration. Am hopeful...
 especially well
 Logs were downloaded for NHTSA and NTSB. Identical copies to all.
Good thing about radar is that, unlike lidar (which is visible wavelength), it can see through rain, snow, fog and dust
 yes
_smith1  certainly moderate and maybe big advances w no incremental hardware
 effective stereo by comparing data at various points in time while moving
 elevation too
 only just gained access to physical vehicle
 _Ryan AP process crash would show up in logs
Working on using existing Tesla radar by itself (decoupled from camera) w temporal smoothing to create a coarse point cloud, like lidar
_Ryan Maybe didn't realize he turned it off, but the car does issue a loud chime and a visual warning on the instrument cluster.
 exactly
Onboard vehicle logs show Autopilot was turned off in Pennsylvania crash. Moreover, crash would not have occurred if it was on.
EU regulators find no safety concerns with Autopilot  
  It's all fun &amp; games until ...  
We don't mind taking the heat for customer safety. It is the right thing to do. From   
      can't wait to see the costume
     Only if I can play a monkey
Tesla finishes last in being salesy! Good. Also, I can't believe there is a real Pied Piper.  
Something like that  
_uk already taken care of
Kinda. Creating a seamlessly integrated Tesla battery &amp; solar power product that looks beautiful is the reason  
 I like your tweets!
 Tricky in 140 chars, but: 1B needed for min statistical sample size. More software mods and data may be needed beyond that.
Blog on Autopilot by   
  US is ~11 deaths per billion miles. WW is 17 deaths per billion. Autopilot already much better than either so far.
  Unless we get there and find it isn't enough. Just won't be before 1B.
 It is extensively tested in the lab and in the Tesla test fleet. However, there is no substitute for real world experience.
 With less than 1B miles, there simply isn't enough data. 1B is a necessary but not necessarily sufficient condition.
  Thanks. Point of calling it "beta" was to emphasize to those who chose to use it that it wasn't perfect.
@_CraigR  exactly
   that wasn't criticism, just clarification
 why?
   thought I was posting Reuters. Copied the wrong link.
 Probably six months. Will include hundreds of refinements to handle rare corner cases in Autopilot.
  you're right, no point
 Use of word "beta" is explicitly so that drivers don't get comfortable. It is not beta software in the standard sense.
Misunderstanding of what "beta" means to Tesla for Autopilot: any system w less than 1B miles of real world driving   
Today is Nikola Tesla's birthday. I hope he likes what we've done in his name.
Working on Top Secret Tesla Masterplan, Part 2. Hoping to publish later this week.
   Story was fed to LAT &amp; many other media to counter IMF $5T/year fossil subsidy study. Hey, both have a 5!
 seriously
Love reddit. Gandel gets shredded &amp; won't even answer top 3 upvoted questions. Some really funny comments about Koch  
Model S had the lowest probability of injury of any car ever tested by NHTSA, which is why ...  
_marinova   thanks
 true, good point
 No, you were misleading mostly on your own, but w many copycats. Jalopnik just lost it's sense of irony &amp; didn't get my tweet.
 _Jahn cool, thanks :)
  _Jahn The Google term of self-driving would probably be more appropriate then.
 _Jahn In other words, the intended implication is that a driver must remain alert, just as a pilot must remain alert.
 _Jahn Tesla Tesla Autopilot is named after aircraft autopilot, as it is always expected that a pilot must stay alert.
 All publicly known Tesla product developments are called out, incl vehicles and batteries. Would be odd *not* to include.
Tesla response to the misleading Fortune articles about Autopilot  
Sponsored articles …  
Because of course I hate flamingos...(maybe try eating fewer flamingo eggs in your salad)  
_defense  Exactly! I love Twitter.
 Wrong to exclude non-occupant deaths. Autopilot would have prevented this cyclist from being killed  
 If you care about auto deaths as material to stock prices, why no articles about 1M+/year deaths from other auto companies?
 Yes, it was material to you -- BS article increased your advertising revenue. Just wasn't material to TSLA, as shown by market.
_zin  Radar tunes out what looks like an overhead road sign to avoid false braking events
Our condolences for the tragic loss  
 Shakespeare. Then love-devouring death do what he dare;  It is enough I may but call her mine.
 aspirationally
My son recently asked what my favorite animal was. Well, of course …  
Thoughtful analysis of the Tesla/SolarCity merger by   
Thanks for the kind bday wishes!
 cute!
  exactly
  We haven't signed anything for a factory in China
Deluded, deranged, etc. Journalistic thesaurus sure got a lot of use last week ...  
 Article is misleading to readers. No one is "taking home" anything. In a stock for stock transaction, nothing comes off the table.
 Of course. Our love will never die.
This is going to be great  
 Drive units and battery are sealed
If curious abt TSWLM car, am still planning to do a sports sub car that can drive on roads. Just a side project. Limited market potential :)
We *def* don't recommended this, but Model S floats well enough to turn it into a boat for short periods of time. Thrust via wheel rotation.
Tesla owner drives through a flooded tunnel &amp; out the other side   
As mentioned at the beginning of the year, I'm expecting ~70% success rate on landings for the year. 2016 is the year of experimentation.
Looks like early liquid oxygen depletion caused engine shutdown just above the deck  
Turns out the landing was not as fast we thought, but still hard enough to destroy the primary airframe and accordion the engines
 Thanks Tyler
Landing video will be posted when we gain access to cameras on the droneship later today. Maybe hardest impact to date. Droneship still ok.
Upgrades underway to enable rocket to compensate for a thrust shortfall on one of the three landing engines. Probably get there end of year.
  Quite rapid... Yes
RUD = Rapid Unscheduled Disassembly :)
Looks like thrust was low on 1 of 3 landing engines. High g landings v sensitive to all engines operating at max.
Ascent phase &amp; satellites look good, but booster rocket had a RUD on droneship
Highly recommend anything by Sean Carroll  
 Am concerned that advanced life may be inherently unstable. Arguably, any civ capable of extinguishing itself eventually will.
 Life you can talk to is another matter, of course. Many, many orders of magnitude less likely.
 No way. Look at chemotrophs and extremophiles. Primitive life is bloody everywhere. Highly under the ice on Europa imo.
  Hence the urgency of making life as we know it multiplanetary as soon as possible
 That, speed of light constraint and quantum mechanics
And, no, I'm not an alien...but I used to be one
Latest science predicts &gt; trillion alien civilizations. Either they don't last long or there are a *lot* of aliens  
  Yeah, that matches what we've found so far. More likely unhinged than nefarious.
Would seem to indicate that one or more people sought to create the false impression of a safety issue where none existed. Q is why?
Of greater concern: 37 of 40 suspension complaints to NHTSA were fraudulent, i.e. false location or vehicle identification numbers were used
NHTSA confirmed today that they found no safety concern with the Model S suspension and have no further need for data from us on this matter
 That is correct. It was about innovation.
Nice comment about the Model S by CvK on _BBCA  
 no
Something about a flying metal suit...   
 yes
S and X cells are also Panasonic
Would like to clarify that Tesla is working exclusively with Panasonic for Model 3 cells. News articles claiming otherwise are incorrect.
Fourth rocket arrives in the hangar. Aiming for first reflight in Sept/Oct.  
  _Ent PC, of course
Highly recommend  by the good people of _Ent if you like ultrafast team FPS action  
Trippy  
  I love Douglas Adams! My favorite spaceship ever is in HHGTTG.
Exactly  
Good article from  explaining how little incentives have actually contributed to Tesla funding  
 how did you know?
Creating a neural lace is the thing that really matters for humanity to achieve symbiosis with machines
   _Stears exactly
 _Stears It is simulations all the way down
At this point, I'm really running out of crazy things to say. Any suggestions?  
 control of super powerful AI by a small number of humans is the most proximate concern
Just heard that Norway will ban new sales of fuel cars in 2025. What an amazingly awesome country. You guys rock!!  
Yay, baby made it home!  
    autosteering chutes will be added soon
Recode interview with  and    via 
Supercharger policy explained well by :     Will post detailed description soon. I think it's a good balance.
Good summary of Tesla annual meeting by   
 Sorry to hear that. Will take care of this &amp; investigate to see if issues you encountered are systemic.
So it was good for you too ...  
Fast replay of today's rocket landing on SpaceX droneship OCISLY  
 Very similar. The crush core in the Falcon legs is reusable after soft landings, but needs to be replaced after hard.
Crush core is aluminum honeycomb for energy absorption in the telescoping actuator. Easy to replace (if Falcon makes it back to port).
Rocket landing speed was close to design max &amp; used up contingency crush core, hence back &amp; forth motion. Prob ok, but some risk of tipping.
Satellite deployed to 91,000 km apogee. All looks good.
3 mins to launch  
 There was a tiny glitch in the motion of an upper stage engine actuator. Probably not a flight risk, but still worth investigating.
Really fun Model X review by . Best part is X racing while towing a fuel sports car  
 Flight 24 is def capable of flying again, but it makes sense to apply ground delta qual to rocket w toughest entry conditions.
Great image of ancient Mars  
 No prob. We care about doing what's fair &amp; just. Don't always get it right, but intent is always there &amp; we make amends when wrong
 Per the letter, Tesla paid $55/hr for *additional* services, so no.
 Yes, but it is false of Merc News to say that Tesla took advantage of low cost labor. We paid $55/hr. That is unequivocal.
We still need to make sure that the injured person is taken care of, but less &amp; less of the Merc story appears to be true
Merc News story about Tesla using $5/hr labor seems to be missing a digit. Tesla actually paid $55/hr.  
 _Canada Totally agree. Am told this will be fixed by Thurs, maybe Fri.
  Full height of Falcon 9 boost stage on legs is ~165 ft
Falcon Heavy side boosters can use most of the same airframe as Falcon 9, but center core needs to be buffed up a lot for transfer loads.
Response to a Mercury News article about an injury on our premises  
 Only heard about this today. Sounds like the wrong thing happened on many levels. Will investigate and make it right.
 Better. Not there yet, but a solution is likely.
 yes
 yup
Most recent rocket took max damage, due to v high entry velocity. Will be our life leader for ground tests to confirm others are good.
Three's company  
_SpaceX  will do another AMA just before reflight of the rocket in a few months
Dog snuggle thread on reddit. Comments get really good.  
Excited to announce Tesla's entry into automotive racing!  
  también te amo
 It's probably the Ambien
Definitely  
Ok  
Full credit to the team that's doing this. All happening without any help from me.   
  _Stevens  coming soon
 Certainly agree that it is first and foremost a triumph for humanity. The cheering is in good spirit.
 I think so
 Max is just 3X Merlin thrust and min is ~40% of 1 Merlin. Two outer engines shut off before the center does.
I love you too!  
Launch trajectory of Japanese commercial satellite JCSat-14, enroute to 36,000 km above Earth  
  Thank goodness all are ok
Yeah, this was a three engine landing burn, so triple deceleration of last flight. That's important to minimize gravity losses.
May need to increase size of rocket storage hangar
Woohoo!!  
Rocket reentry is a lot faster and hotter than last time, so odds of making it are maybe even, but we should learn a lot either way
Tesla is increasing the production ramp as fast as possible, but I'd recommend ordering a Model 3 soon if you want 2018 delivery
 yes
Filtering particulates from air makes a significant &amp; measurable diff to health. Wd like to credit Larry Page with turning me on to this.
Bioweapon Defense Mode is real   This is what happens when you turn it on:  
  Have been reviewing end of line production quality personally. Slowed things down temporarily, but it's for the best.
 Historical precedent. Mars vehicle will be metric.
 next month (with a lot of other good stuff)
    exactly
@_andyoneal sides def, center maybe
 naturally
Falcon Heavy thrust will be 5.1M lbf at liftoff --  twice any rocket currently flying. It's a beast...
F9 thrust at liftoff will be raised to 1.71M lbf later this year. It is capable of 1.9M lbf in flight.
 F9 LEO payload on capabilities page (correct figure on main page) should be 22,800 kg
 No cross feed. It would help performance, but is not needed for these numbers.
 No physical changes to the engine. This thrust increase is based on delta qual tests. It is just tougher than we thought.
 Max performance numbers are for expendable launches. Subtract 30% to 40% for reusable booster payload.
 Basically current, but higher throttle setting. Good performance of recent launches allows us to reduce 3 sigma reserve margin.
Just posted latest max payload capabilities of Falcon 9 and Heavy  
 yes
 turns out it doesn't need securing
_Elon yes
  yes, several times
 for sure :)
 things like this should be purged shortly
 100+ for almost everything 10+ for heat shields and a few other items.
 Zuck doesn't (yet) have a deep tech understanding of AI. I spend hours every week being educated by world's best researchers.
 JCSat is pushing the envelope as a very hot and fast mission, so will land on the droneship. Next land landing in a few months.
 System scan detected only 0.2% of orders with same email and physical address. Those have been purged.
 of course
_kazan Temporary spike in some areas due to X 3rd row seat recall. Should be sorted by June.
 Duplicates will be cancelled. Max of 2 will be delivered to any one person. Only ~5% of orders are 2, so speculation unlikely.
 Simple answer is that there just aren't many used Teslas available. Demand &gt;&gt; supply.
 checking into it ...
 will definitely do so
_cavazos some places are trickier than others, but yes. That's the value of having a PICA-3 heat shield with propulsive landing.
 It could land on Venus no problem, but would last maybe a few hours. Tough local environment.
But wouldn't recommend transporting astronauts beyond Earth-moon region. Wouldn't be fun for longer journeys. Internal volume ~size of SUV.
Dragon 2 is designed to be able to land anywhere in the solar system. Red Dragon Mars mission is the first test flight.
 A 3 should be workable, but an S or particularly an X would be better
 That article was incredibly misleading and you should know it. Wager right now that Sun has received far more than Tesla?
Looks like Model X resale value is holding up well :)  
 Aiming for relaunch in 3 to 4 months, pending detailed examination and 10X refiring of a returned booster
 We have amplified pre-delivery inspection to provide a stronger second layer of QA. Several parts being replaced as a result.
By land and sea  
Will be interesting to see what the meantime to Hitler is for these bots. Only took Microsoft's Tay a day.  
Owner video of Autopilot steering to avoid collision with a truck  
Godot   Full play  
Have recently come to appreciate the awesome, absurdist humor of Waiting for Godot. We so often wait, without knowing why, when or where.
_AA_Carmack me too!
Great video history of Falcon 9 by Kinematic  
 needs latest update
Activate autopilot 4X in quick succession for psychedelic cowbell road. And, yes, we are adding more cowbell soon.
  Not from us, but it's awesome
 Well, I thought TLI might be upset about using their material without permission. Apparently not :)
  Thanks
 yes
 Tickets to orbital hotels, the moon and Mars will be a lot less than people think.
Just wanted to write a note of appreciation for all those who have supported Tesla, SpaceX &amp; SolarCity over the years. Thank you.
 Thanks on behalf of an amazing team at SpaceX!
_Favreau  Thanks!
   _Station Thanks for your support! Looking forward to delivering the goods for you.
Screen cap from the stern cam of droneship "Of Course I Still Love You"  
 Reasons for ocean landing are technical, not economic. Orbit requires extreme horizontal velocity. Getting to space needs none.
SolarCity panels produce enough zero carbon energy to charge entire Tesla fleet  
 Nickel is also in nickels
 Battery uses no rare Earth metals. Main ingredient is nickel, which is what's used to coat cutlery, so very non-toxic.
Over 325k cars or ~$14B in preorders in first week. Only 5% ordered max of two, suggesting low levels of speculation.
  the only thing beyond ludicrous is plaid
 yes, will go all the way to Alaska
 Dex will do comms, but my speeches are just a conversation w the audience. No time to rehearse &amp; don't want to read from a prompter.
 we will
 Doesn't sound right. Will check into it.
 We are working on enlarging the opening. Aperture will be big enough for almost anything.
Most telling is that the SpaceX Propulsion CTO switched from driving a Porsche 911 Turbo S to a Model X
Model X review  
 probably unwise
   won't be a hatchback, but we should be able to increase the opening width and height
 yes
 yes
  yes
 yes
 sounds good
Signing off from impromptu Twitter AMA. Thanks for the suggestions. Btw, we really will have more cow bells.
 Coming soon for all Tesla cars. Just an OTA software update.
 yes, coming this year
 Air suspension dynamically adjusts ride height
 you can do that now with S and X. Will be same for 3.
@_elombardo  correct
 hopefully 0.21
  what's the link to that?
 No, but we will need to build a factory in Europe to serve long-term regional demand as Fremont reaches max capacity.
 no problem
 Will cover whole country hopefully this year
 yes, but production AWD will be a lot faster
 less
 torque is shifted between front &amp; rear motors every ~.01 secs. Traction control is way better than a normal AWD. Digital vs analog.
And, of course, it will have more cowbells.
Model 3 will be RWD, with dual motor AWD optional. Even RWD will have great traction on ice due to fast torque response of Tesla drivetrain.
 yes
  Superchargers and service centers will cover all of Italy later this year
@_Only_Hawk   definitely
  should be addressed this year
 Only way to get enough rear passenger headroom was to move the rear roof cross-car support beam. A bike will still fit no problem.
 that's not the real steering system
_Rans yes. Will easily fit two child seats. Three if you buy slim seats.
 Some tweaking underway
_Cosmin Wait until you see the real steering controls and system for the 3. It feels like a spaceship.
  Won't happen. Reason initial cars are delivered close to factory is to have rapid turnaround on early issues.
 Edge and contour refinement are ongoing. Even .1mm matters.
@_amwolo_ They can. Will be great for road trips and camping
 It will make sense after part 2 of the Model 3 unveil
A Model 3 order gives you priority in your geography, so, even tho total count is high, ordering early will make a big difference locally.
In general, product comments, suggestions and criticisms are always welcome
 We always try to maximize customer happiness even if that means a revenue shortfall in a quarter. Loyalty begets loyalty.
 There will be an optional tow hitch.
 Our production ramp plan should enable large numbers of non X/S customers to receive the credit.
  Matte black was surprisingly popular. Probably makes sense to bring it to production.
 cool, thanks!
  Yes, if the trend continues, before
276k Model 3 orders by end of Sat
Model 3 design sketches  
 We are working on an exact date, but Tesla will be in India before 3 production starts.
 They will. We spent a lot of time on those.
 Roadster, S and X customers are the ones who got us here and are paying for 3. They deserve a lot of credit.
_ we will send something to everyone who ordered, but an extra gift for those who stood in some crazy long lines
 yes, within a region. Can't deliver to all regions simultaneously. Too much complexity.
 and a few other things
Token of appreciation for those who lined up coming via mail. Thought maybe 20-30 people per store would line up, not 800. Gifts on order.
 Maybe 1/4 to 1/2 of what happened. No one at Tesla thought it would be this high before part 2 of the unveil.
Will give an update tonight for the 3 day total, then last one on Wed for the full week. All efforts focused on accelerating the ramp.
253k as of 7am this morning
 thanks!
Now 232k orders
 of course :)
 Giga is designed to self-power via solar panels (primarily), wind &amp; geo, using its own batteries to store electricity at night.
 def on the cards for the future
 should be within a week or two max
_Milano Hi Alyssa, thanks for placing your faith in Tesla. I hope you have a great experience with the car.
Definitely going to need to rethink production planning...
Thought it would slow way down today, but Model 3 order count is now at 198k. Recommend ordering soon, as the wait time is growing rapidly.
Model 3 orders at 180,000 in 24 hours. Selling price w avg option mix prob $42k, so ~$7.5B in a day. Future of electric cars looking bright!
 Will include India-wide Supercharger network
 sure!
 Coming in the mail
 Hardware in all cars. Autopilot safety features standard. Convenience features optional (like S and X).
 Just order the SpaceX option package!
Thanks for tuning in to the Model 3 unveil Part 1! Part 2 is super next level, but that's for later…
 yes, will cover whole country
 yes
 sure is
 X and S will also be available
Adding several more countries to Model 3 order page tonight. Check for details, but will include India, Brazil, SA, SK, NZ, Sing &amp; Ireland.
Model 3 orders, whether in store or online, are limited to two per person
Online ordering at   will now open at 7:30pm Pacific to ensure no server overload. Presentation still at 8:30.
 From almost anywhere
 Coming soon!
Incredibly inspired by the interest in Model 3. You won't be disappointed. Also, small token of appreciation coming for those who lined up.
Model 3 unveil will be webcast live at 8:30pm California time at  
 You will see the car very clearly, but some important elements will be added and some will evolve.
Tomorrow is Part 1 of the Model 3 unveil. Part 2, which takes things to another level, will be closer to production.
Model 3 order day starting in Australia  
You can now buy cruise ship tickets for the Arctic passage. Seeing is believing.  
Great article by . Important to note max temp record. Too much attention on avg temp. Max matters most  
Looks like we may need to increase production plans for the Model 3  
Tesla charger map  
 being fixed
 sure
 Turn off recirc. Air exits thru rear vents. Snap in shade also avail from service, but I just tint the rear window.
 no
The AEI meeting wasn't secret and I was only there for a few hours to talk about Mars and sustainable energy. Nothing to do with Trump.
Congrats to DeepMind! Many experts in the field thought AI was 10 years away from achieving this.  
SpaceX &amp; Tesla comp is same or better than other companies. Big diff is that we don't outsource manufacturing, retail sales or service.
SpaceX and Tesla rated most meaningful work in high tech. Also, most stressful, but that goes with the territory.   
  Wasn't done at my request. Good hacking is a gift.
Rocket landed hard on the droneship. Didn't expect this one to work (v hot reentry), but next flight has a good chance.
Target altitude of 40,600 km achieved. Thanks _Satellites for riding on Falcon 9! Looking forward to future missions.
_Valdric  We spoke earlier today and he said he would investigate the situation.
. SpaceX has not donated to any presidential campaign
Evolution hasn't advanced much  
MIT Technology Review 2016  
 checking ...
 exactly :)
Pushing launch to Friday due to extreme high altitude wind shear. Hits like a sledgehammer when going up supersonic  
 Only heard about it today. Doesn't sound like they are in the right though in their dealings with our subcontractor.
 Launch aborted on low thrust alarm. Rising oxygen temps due to hold for boat and helium bubble triggered alarm.
 AF has placed launch on hold due to a boat entering the edge of the keep out zone. Scrambling helo to get them to move.
 Great leg room for 3rd row, rear visibility better, easy storage of long cargo.
  yes, it actually performed better than other colors on stain tests. Best not to have vented seats w kids though.
 Can't emphasize enough that white is the best interior. Also, pick 6 seats unless you really need 7.
  That said, the white interior is the best. Highly recommend.
 Heavy use of the white causes splitting. Adding backing material to strengthen. Will be upgraded at no cost.
Worth reposting the Wait But Why piece on AI. We are at the beginning of exponential growth in digital intelligence.  
Next gen Atlas robot  
  coming later this year
There is no way it is only 0.5%, given the staggeringly massive number of fossil subsidies that exist in every country, or as high as 50%.
Global economy of $100T is overwhelmingly fossil fuel based, so IMF estimate of $5T or 5% for carbon subsidy is def right order of magnitude
Just wanted to thank Stu G for   Know it meant a lot to you. Will take good care.
 Don't you already have a spaceship?  
Worth noting that all gasoline cars are heavily subsidized via oil company tax credits &amp; unpaid public health costs  
Sigh …  
 Hi :)
 yeah, that's a great one too :)
 Little bit
Worth watching "Nathan for You" on Comedy Central, particularly the "Dumb Starbucks" and "Mechanic/Realtor" episodes
My coffee tastes unusually good this morning  
  yes
Interesting to think of physics as a set of compression algorithms for the universe. That's basically what formulas are.
  yes, this was done jointly with Tesla and Radio Flyer
This baby Model S really is quite fun   
More details on Model 3 unveil in coming weeks. That's it for now.
 yes
No signature series for Model 3. Same reservation amount for all.
 global
Model 3 reservations ($1000 down) will be accepted in Tesla stores on March 31 and online April 1
 good point
Should mention that Tesla Motors itself had nothing to do with the short movie. This was completely independent.
Love this Tesla video made by  
My job moonlighting as a police officer in Brazil is no longer secret  
Must be a slow news day if denying service to a super rude customer gets this much attention
 Interesting name
 I didn't take anyone's car and never would. Car was actually allocated to engineering test (not by me) and inadvertently sold.
My best guess for 2016: ~70% landing success rate (so still a few more RUDs to go), then hopefully improving to ~90% in 2017
  Thanks Jeff
Falcon lands on droneship, but the lockout collet doesn't latch on one the four legs, causing it…  
_penguin _OverWhale Stage 1 would reach low Earth orbit if not hefting a second stage, but payload would be greatly reduced.
 Actually, didn't get environmental approval in time, but it was also good practice for missions where a ship is needed.
If speed at stage separation &gt; ~6000 km/hr. With a ship, no need to zero out lateral velocity, so can stage at up to ~9000 km/h.
Ship landings are not needed for flexibility or to save fuel costs. Just not physically possible to return to launch site
As mentioned before, ship landings are needed for high velocity missions. Altitude &amp; distance don't mean much for orbit. All about speed.
 steel collet
Well, at least the pieces were bigger this time! Won't be last RUD, but am optimistic about upcoming ship landing.  
_Gus probably
However, that was not what prevented it being good. Touchdown speed was ok, but a leg lockout didn't latch, so it tipped over after landing.
Definitely harder to land on a ship. Similar to an aircraft carrier vs land: much smaller target area, that's also translating &amp; rotating.
Maybe some debris ingestion. Engine data looks ok. Will borescope tonight. This is one of the outer engines.
Conducted hold-down firing of returned Falcon rocket. Data looks good overall, but engine 9 showed thrust fluctuations.
Next launch is a  science mission from VAFB California on Sunday.  
Aiming to launch this weekend and (hopefully) land on our droneship. Ship landings needed for high velocity missions  
Sad to hear that David Bowie died. He was amazing.
In ~2 years, summon should work anywhere connected by land &amp; not blocked by borders, eg you're in LA and the car is in NY
Tap your phone or key and your car will open the garage door, exit, close the door and come to you. Will do same in reverse for unsummon.
First baby step in Tesla Summon capability now downloading over-the-air with V7.1
Worth reading The Machine Stops, an old story by E. M. Forster  
Falcon 9 back in the hangar at Cape Canaveral. No damage found, ready to fire again.  
High res video of landing from the helo  
Live video from LZ-1  
Falcon 9 standing on LZ-1 at Cape Canaveral  
 thanks!
There and back again  
_Favreau Thanks Jon!
11 satellites deployed to target orbit and Falcon has landed back at Cape Canaveral. Headed to LZ-1. Welcome back, baby!
Background on the launch  
Launch &amp; landing can be seen on the   webcast or in person from Cape Canaveral public causeway at 8:33pm local tmrw
Just reviewed mission params w SpaceX team. Monte Carlo runs show tmrw night has a 10% higher chance of a good landing. Punting 24 hrs.
Currently looking good for a Sunday night (~8pm local) attempted orbital launch and rocket landing at Cape Canaveral
Meant to reply to this article:  
This article does not appreciate that Tesla is in California despite taxes net of rebates being higher. Incentives only a partial offset.
Static fire test looks good. Pending data review, will aim to launch Sunday.
Rounding up to 1 sec for a bit of timing margin. Updating flight computer command sequence …
Aborted on ignition timing due to slow ground side valve. Adjusting ignition sequence by 0.6 secs for next attempt.
About 2 mins from static fire
 holding for issue resolution
Abort triggered by flight computer on upper stage throttle valve. Adjusting thresholds and restarting count at T-10 mins.
5 mins from static fire test
 yes, from 70F to 20 F
 It worked in Texas
 -340 F in this case. Deep cryo increases density and amplifies rocket performance. First time anyone has gone this low for O2.
Falcon 9 is vertical on the launch pad at Cape Canaveral. Working towards static fire. Deep cryo liquid oxygen presenting some challenges.
  Not really my letter (no authorship contribution). Just agreed to add my name when they asked.
Vance article on self-driving cars was inaccurate  
Announcing formation of _ai …  
Aiming for Falcon rocket static fire at Cape Canaveral on the 16th and launch about three days later
 Agreed. Working on it.
wow  
 Best of luck to the Cygnus launch
 Nice ride! Looking forward to seeing you tomorrow.
Good summary of my talk in Paris on climate change  
About to give a talk at the Sorbonne  
_AA_Carmack Yep, good points. I hope you get back into space some day!
But credit for 1st reusable suborbital rocket goes to X-15   And Burt Rutan for commercial  
Jeff maybe unaware SpaceX suborbital VTOL flight began 2013. Orbital water landing 2014. Orbital land landing next.  
 Not quite "rarest". SpaceX Grasshopper rocket did 6 suborbital flights 3 years ago &amp; is still around.  
 The F9 booster can reach low orbit as a single stage if not carrying the upper stage and a heavy satellite.
Getting to space needs ~Mach 3, but GTO orbit requires ~Mach 30. The energy needed is the square, i.e. 9 units for space and 900 for orbit.
It is, however, important to clear up the difference between "space" and "orbit", as described well by  
Congrats to Jeff Bezos and the BO team for achieving VTOL on their booster
 Sounds perfect, you had me at "enterprise".
 Yeah and hell yeah
 From anywhere
Should mention that I will be interviewing people personally and Autopilot reports directly to me. This is a super high priority.
We are looking for hardcore software engineers. No prior experience with cars required. Please include code sample or link to your work.
Ramping up the Autopilot software team at Tesla to achieve generalized full autonomy. If interested, contact autopilot.com.
 definitely aliens!
 Current production is LTE. Can be upgraded by service.
  well done!
_AA_Carmack noted
 Wow, that's great!
Model S Ludicrous Mode achieves 2.6 sec 0-60 mph and 10.9 sec 1/4 mile in Motor Trend test  
 yes, comes with each car
Compliment from Jeffrey is much appreciated, but the people of Tesla deserve all the credit
I should clarify that   is an independent website. We don't have any control over the content.
Cool!  
 Hopefully, mid to late next year. We are being more cautious abt expanding countries to ensure a great user experience each time.
 Given high local demand, a Gigafactory in India would probably make sense in the long term.
 Yes, establishing charging and service infrastructure in Mexico now. Official launch in next several months.
 Auto import duties are prohibitively high. Hoping for a special category for EVs. Most of our discussion was about batteries.
 We just finished building a huge expansion in Tilburg!
These are all things I've said before and are naturally needed to improve in-market affordability, so no real news here.
Model 3 is due in ~2 yrs. A China factory for local demand cd be as soon as a year after. A factory in Europe wd happen for same reason.
My comments in China weren't transcribed correctly. Tesla will keep making cars &amp; batteries in CA &amp; NV as far into future as I can imagine.
 important to set AC to not recirc (air exits thru rear) and use the snap in shade, which Tesla service can provide
 Amount of change needed is enormous - like a spinal cord transplant. Would cost less and work better with a new car.
Autopilot 1.01 coming soon: curve speed adaption, controller smoothness, better lane holding on poor roads, improved fleet learning!
Regulatory approvals received, so Autopilot rolling out to all countries! (Excluding Japan, which is still under review)
 all
 Hoping for Friday release
 Good feedback. Will write up a list of software priorities in the coming weeks.
What esthetic and functionality improvements would you like to see in the 7.1 UI overhaul? Or new features entirely?
 already in Jordan. Rest of states in region next year.
 thanks Bonnie :)
 planning to have a big opening in Mexico City soon and then proceed gradually to central and South America.
 me too:
 yay! Always happy to make others happy
 big UI update coming in V7.1
 we won't be, but yes
Tesla gets top rating of any company in service. Most important, CR says 97% of owners expect their next car to be a Tesla (the acid test).
Consumer Reports reliability survey includes a lot of early production cars. Already addressed in new cars.
 already there
Congrats on driving a Tesla from LA to NY in just over two days!  
Autopilot release to Europe and Asia pending regulatory approval. Hopefully get the ok in the next few weeks.
__ _8 Watched the whole series. One of the best tv shows ever.
_8 um, thanks, I like your work too
_8 sure :)
 actually works best at night
Review of Model S by   
 Depends on regulatory approval, but hopefully end of next week
 1.5 million miles per day
  V7.1
 Lots of upgrades and a new look, although main UI upgrade coming with 7.1
 ww
 roughly 5 days
  same
 Non-autopilot will have a new interface too. More comprehensive UI update coming with 7.1.
 yes
Some exciting news this week: Tesla Version 7 software with Autopilot goes to wide release on Thursday!
CH4 rapidly decays back to CO2 &amp; is absorbed by plants. What matters is adding new carbon to surface cycle from underground oil, gas &amp; coal.
 Intentions are good, but massively overweights CH4's effect on climate.
Tesla P85D (assembled in Tilburg) beats 650 hp MacLaren from 0 to 150km/h in Dutch magazine test  
 I didn't walk back anything, apart from media hype
 yo
Regarding the watch, Jony &amp; his team created a beautiful design, but the functionality isn't compelling yet. By version 3, it will be.
Yo, I don't hate Apple. It's a great company with a lot of talented people. I love their products and I'm glad they're doing an EV.
Peak temp increases due to climate change  
Mostly accurate and fun movie about Mars. Worth seeing.  
_p you can mount a rack to the roof via suction cups and still have one Falcon door work fine. Guaranteed up to 140 mph.
  door is larger than opening and acts as an umbrella. Upper interior trim has hydrophobic coating.
  Front doors have a short arc and their interior panels are chamfered back
Model X Bioweapon Defense Mode definitely filters viruses btw, even the small ones. Has hospital operating room level filtering.
 am def 6'2"
CNN on how Falcon doors work in tight garages. Above 6 2' ft, my height :), doors work fine.  
Side view of Falcon Wing doors  
 thanks, that's a great idea. I think we can do that.
Btw, price of Model X is actually only $5k more than S. Lower cost versions coming later.
 California time
Model X launch webcast live today 8pm at   Time to show the real thing.  
Great discussion about solar/batteries empowering rural communities  
Dinner in an old Belgian ironmongery. Best menu art ever.  
 It was super good
Midnight dinner in Berlin  
In expendable mode, Falcon Heavy can send a fully loaded Dragon to Mars or a light Dragon to Jupiter's moons. Europa mission wd be cool.
Dragon 2 is designed to land on any surface (liquid or solid) in the solar system. Am glad to see people thinking about applications!
Researchers at  propose using  Falcon/Dragon for Mars sample return mission  
New model for evolution of intelligent life suggests probable emergence 2 billion years ago near galactic center  
 thanks!
Btw, not saying we *should* nuke Mars -- just layin' out a few options …
First production cars will be handed over on Sept 29 at our Fremont factory
 Definitely
 Lithium deal is not exclusive &amp; has many contingencies. The press on this matter is unwarranted.
 $35k price, unveil in March, preorders start then.
Model 3, our smaller and lower cost sedan will start production in about 2 years. Fully operational Gigafactory needed.
With same options, Model X is $5k more than an S due to greater size &amp; body complexity. Sig Series is fully loaded, hence high price.
 I appreciate the kind words in the article, but, judging by the picture mods, it looks your Photoshop bill was very high.
True, but achieving a long range affordable electric vehicle has always been our long-term goal. Due in late 2017!  
Article on  and colonizing Mars by    
Comments section on this article is awesome  
 Provided all ten take delivery, you have indeed!
Tesla Snakebot autocharger prototype. Does seem kinda wrong :)  
 yes
The car will learn over time, but there is a min caliber of starting quality.
 Various forms of shades are being considered. May not be necessary though.
 all regions
Final corner case is dealing with low contrast lane markings (faded white on grey concrete) while driving into the sun at dusk
Almost ready to release highway autosteer and parallel autopark software update
_Milano Thanks Alyssa!
 thanks Loic :)
_AA_Carmack Even if inevitable, we should at least attempt to postpone the advent of AI weaponry. Sooner isn't better.
If you’re against a military AI arms race, please sign this open letter:  
 probably end of year
Ludicrous speed, 70 kWh rear drive and 90 kWh battery pack  
Model S product call at 11 today. Rocket discussion at noon on Monday.
Expect to reach preliminary conclusions regarding last flight by end of week. Will brief key customers &amp; FAA, then post on our website.
Cause still unknown after several thousand engineering-hours of review. Now parsing data with a hex editor to recover final milliseconds.
 Thanks David
 yeah, not the best birthday
That's all we can say with confidence right now. Will have more to say following a thorough fault tree analysis.
There was an overpressure event in the upper stage liquid oxygen tank. Data suggests counterintuitive cause.
 Thanks :)
Falcon 9 experienced a problem shortly before first stage shutdown. Will provide more info as soon as we review the data.
Drone hexacopter takes pic of drone ship OCISLY on station in the Atlantic  
Droneship "Of Course I Still Love You" just before it left port  
Trying for another rocket landing tmrw. This time on the droneship "Of Course I Still Love You".  
 You're welcome. Good conversation.
  End of year
Credit for SolarCity is really due to Rive bros &amp; great team there. My contribution is fairly small.   via 
Important to note that Model S resale value is also higher than that of gasoline cars
Tesla service team helps save a stray kitten that took refuge in a Model S. Nice work guys!  
To be clear, SpaceX is supporting a student design competition for STEM, not trying to build Hyperloop itself. Other cos are doing latter.
SpaceX/Tesla will also do a reference pod to be shown after the  competition. Bonus for all racing teams that exceed reference.
My kids love "The Lost Planet" by . Now on a rare second read!
    Cool, thanks for letting us know. This is helpful for figuring out fairing reusability.
Air Force certifies  to compete for launching national security satellites  
What are the best riddles you've heard that are short enough for Twitter?
Another good riddle: drill a hole thru a sphere such that the height of what remains of the sphere is 10cm. What is its remaining volume?
Astronomer Royal Martin Rees: How soon will robots take over the world? - via   
This is not the full Gigafactory, it is just the pilot plant (1/4 size)  
Fossil fuels subsidised by $10m a minute, says IMF   
 Hi Julie!
 Thanks Christie
 That is true. If someone says they are thinking about having kids, I always encourage them to do so.
It is total BS &amp; hurtful to claim that I told a guy to miss his child's birth just to attend a company meeting. I would never do that.
Of 22 Quotes from   2 need correcting: 1. I strongly support pregnancy leave 2. I've never called myself a samurai
 I have never written or said this. Ashlee's book was not independently fact-checked. Should be taken w a grain of salt.
Max acceleration was 6X gravity, altitude 1187m, lateral distance 1202m and velocity 155 m/s. Main chutes deployed 970m.
Dragon abort test video  
Dragon abort test stats: 0 to 100 mph in 1.2 sec, top speed of 345 mph
Hold down firing of Dragon 2 spacecraft at Cape Canaveral  
Very funny post of a Tesla owner test driving a gasoline car  
While I like the initials, I'd take the so-called "EM Drive" with a grain o salt per  article  
My favorite shot from the last rocket landing attempt on the droneship  
Last night's Tesla Powerwall and Powerpack unveiling  
 Press conference went way over time. Tried to give all the journalists who'd traveled far an opportunity to ask a question.
For more info on Tesla Energy, check out press kit. $250/kWh for utility scale is the real kicker  
 Haha, awesome :)
For the future to be good, we need electric transport, solar power and (of course) ...  
Rocket launch good, satellite in geo transfer orbit. Still so damn intense. Looking fwd to it feeling normal one day.
Worth watching . The AI would be in the network, not the robot, but otherwise good.
 New Roadster battery should complete safety validation by end of July, so likely available in August
  Wow!
While the rocket does look rather tall &amp; tippy, a stable landing is no problem with proper throttle response  
Cause of hard rocket landing confirmed as due to slower than expected throttle valve response. Next attempt in 2 months.
 I only invest in companies I help found or to help a friend or a cause (no return expected for latter two)
Droneship is fine. No hull breach and repairs are minor. Impact overpressure is closer to a fast fire than an explosion.
High resolution, color corrected, slow motion rocket landing video  
If this works, I'm treating myself to a volcano lair. It's time.
Ok, looks like we got some killer footage from the chase plane. Big ocean, small ship. Posting vid shortly  
Looks like Falcon landed fine, but excess lateral velocity caused it to tip over post landing  
Ascent successful. Dragon enroute to Space Station. Rocket landed on droneship, but too hard for survival.
3 mins to liftoff
Launch window always tight when orbital synch needed. In this case, Space Station. For Earth-Sun gravity null point, moon was in the way.
Launch postponed due to lightning from an approaching anvil cloud
Odds of rocket landing successfully today are still less than 50%. The 80% figure by end of year is only bcs many launches ahead.
Have asked SolarCity if we can do something philanthropic with the CA aqueducts to help the water crisis. Investigating…
 Thanks!
We debated this, but there really is $10k gas saved by most owners over 5 yrs (avg ownership period). Since it's true, we are sticking w it.
Waited to say something until after we fixed some of the options pricing (too high) and colors (too many similar)
Just announced new Tesla 70D all-wheel drive, 240 mile range car for ~$55k (after gas savings &amp; incentives)  
To land a rocket, Just Read the Instructions   
Testing of the high performance version of the Tesla Model S by   
Battery "breakthroughs" need to state power *and* energy density (not the same thing), plus how long they last. They usually fail on energy.
Welcome  to . He will apply Formula 1 techniques to revolutionize servicing mainstream cars.
  You had me at Sheen or Gaddafi. Must admit to liking "The Fault in Our Stars" too. Sad, romantic and beautifully named
We just got banned in West Virginia. Oh no.  
Announcing the amazing Tesla Model W   
With all that solar power being generated, it almost feels like something is needed to complete the picture ...
SolarCity just hit a new daily energy record of 5GWh two weeks after reaching 4GWh
Major new Tesla product line -- not a car -- will be unveiled at our Hawthorne Design Studio on Thurs 8pm, April 30
Right move is try both tunnels and flying cars. Otherwise, having 2D streets and 3D buildings means bad traffic forever.
Reasons I like tunnels: you still travel in 3D fast, but immune to weather, quiet and no risk cars fall on your head
Flying car pros: travel in 3D fast. Cons: risk of car falling on head much greater, noisy, grounded in bad weather
Contrary to press reports, I'm not against flying cars. Just said it was important to consider both pros and cons.
Maybe it's wrong, but I really want to see mammoths  
Falcon 9 lifting off with 1.3 mmmillion pounds of force  
Reading Look to Windward by Banks. He is an amazing writer. Pantheon level.
 Unfortunately, Asimov's books largely illustrate why the three laws don't work
Another Easter Egg will be hidden in the Model S code in 2015. Last one took a year to find. Next one should be easier.
 Just changed them to full public domain
SpaceX Photos Are Now Available Under a Creative Commons License  
Thanks to everyone that supported Tesla in New Jersey! We couldn't have done it without you.  
However, when self-driving cars become safer than human-driven cars, the public may outlaw the latter. Hopefully not.
To be clear, Tesla is strongly in favor of people being allowed to drive their cars and always will be. Hopefully, that is obvious.
Battery pack swap is active between SF and LA and seems to be working well. Supercharging is the future, though, for non-commercial traffic.
Neither I nor the company are selling shares. Even if we were, I wouldn't do this. It would be wrong. Our long term results are what matter.
Some people seem to think I tweet to affect share price. This is false. A brief rise in $TSLA stock obviously does no good for Tesla or me.
SolarCity systems generated a new daily record of 4 gigawatt-hours this week  
World's largest hedge fund soon to be powered by artificial intelligence  
Maybe this is all the work of the Stonecutters! Certainly connects a lot of themes ...  
For more on the Fermi Paradox:     and  
The ancient Egyptians were amazing, but if aliens built the pyramids, they would've left behind a computer or something
The rumor that I'm building a spaceship to get back to my home planet Mars is totally untrue
Btw, please don't mention the pyramids. Stacking stone blocks is not evidence of an advanced civilization.
Seems like an opportune moment to bring up the Fermi Paradox, aka "where are the aliens?" Really odd that we see no sign of them.
Model S in drag race against snowmobile on ice lake in Norway (no tire chains or studs)  
There is no slowdown of the Gigafactory construction underway, as anyone near Reno with eyes can verify. It's not subtle.
Some shots of the Gigafactory pilot plant (~20% of full size) under construction  
Upgrades in the works to allow landing for geo missions: thrust +15%, deep cryo oxygen, upper stage tank vol +10%
Both satellites deployed on target. Now firing their ion thrusters to reach geo station over Europe &amp; Asia.
Next landing attempt will be 3rd launch from now. Tonight's flight and following one will not have enough propellant.
Excellent and funny intro article about Artificial Superintelligence! Highly recommend reading  
Tesla Model S rated by  as best car in world for 2nd year in a row  
Landing on a stormy sea  
Rocket soft landed in the ocean within 10m of target &amp; nicely vertical! High probability of good droneship landing in non-stormy weather.
Primary mission on target. Spacecraft head towards the sun! All good there.
 We could actually do that...maybe we should
Planning a significant upgrade of the droneship for future missions to handle literally anything. Maybe give it a Merlin for good measure :)
Can't delay any longer. Must proceed with primary mission to launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory spacecraft.
Mega storm preventing droneship from remaining on station, so rocket will try to land on water. Survival probability &lt;1%.
Coming home  
Dragon splashdown off the California coast  
Launch postponed to tomorrow due to high winds at the Cape, but Dragon still inbound from orbit in 90 mins
Extreme wind shear over Cape Canaveral. Feels like a sledgehammer when supersonic in the vertical. Hoping it changes …
"What Are The Civilian Applications?"  
Prob good though. Will give us time to replace 1st stage video transmitter (not needed for launch, but nice to have).
Air Force tracking radar went down. Launch postponed to same time tomorrow.
Rocket reentry will be much tougher this time around due to deep space mission. Almost 2X force and 4X heat. Plenty of hydraulic fluid tho.
Launching our 1st deep space mission today. Headed to Earth-Sun L1 gravity null point at 1M miles, 4X further than moon.
If you are curious about the P85D, you can schedule a test drive here:  
Painting the name on the droneship ...  
P85 acceleration will also improve, but not quite as much
Video made by owner of a P85D going up a 14% grade on snow passing a whole bunch of stuck SUVs  
Tesla dual motor cars are also all-wheel drive. Main goal of dual motor was actually insane traction on snow. Insane speed was a side effect
Tesla P85D 0 to 60mph acceleration will improve by ~0.1 sec soon via over-the-air software update to inverter algorithm
Great DragTimes video of people experiencing P85D "Insane Mode" acceleration for the first time  
Final one: anything launched by a railgun (if you could ever reach ~ Mach 27) would explode upon exiting the barrel in our dense atmosphere
Ion thrusters are great, but have extremely tiny force (photon thruster even less). Must have more thrust than weight or you don't go up.
And pls don't ask me about space elevators  until someone at least builds a carbon nanotube structure longer than a footbridge
Reason is Newton's Third Law. In vacuum, there is nothing to "push" against. You must react against ejected mass.
If u saw  and wonder why  doesn't use an electric rocket to reach orbit, it is cuz that is impossible
West Coast droneship under construction will be named "Of Course I Still Love You"
Good primer on the exponential advancement of technology, particularly AI  
 Good piece
 ... In honor of IMB, RIP.
Repairs almost done on the spaceport drone ship and have given it the name "Just Read the Instructions"
The universe is really, really big    
  Of course!
Next rocket landing on drone ship in 2 to 3 weeks w way more hydraulic fluid. At least it shd explode for a diff reason.
_AA_Carmack Full RUD (rapid unscheduled disassembly) event. Ship is fine minor repairs. Exciting day!  
_AA_Carmack Residual fuel and oxygen combine  
_AA_Carmack Rocket hits hard at ~45 deg angle, smashing legs and engine section  
_AA_Carmack Before impact, fins lose power and go hardover. Engines fights to restore, but …  
_AA_Carmack Tks. Turns out we recovered some impact video frames from drone ship. It's kinda begging to be released…
 Contact Steve Davis at Hyperloop.com
Also thinking of having an annual student Hyperloop pod racer competition, like Formula SAE  
Will be building a Hyperloop test track for companies and student teams to test out their pods. Most likely in Texas.
Funding research on artificial intelligence safety. It's all fun &amp; games until someone loses an I  
Yesterday's mission to the Space Station lights up the cloudy night sky of Cape Canaveral  
World's top artificial intelligence developers sign open letter calling for AI safety research:  
 Hydraulics are usually closed, but that adds mass vs short acting open systems. F9 fins only work for 4 mins. We were ~10% off.
Am super proud of my crew for making huge strides towards reusability on this mission. You guys rock!
Upcoming flight already has 50% more hydraulic fluid, so should have plenty of margin for landing attempt next month.
Grid fins worked extremely well from hypersonic velocity to subsonic, but ran out of hydraulic fluid right before landing.
Didn't get good landing/impact video. Pitch dark and foggy. Will piece it together from telemetry and ... actual pieces.
Ship itself is fine. Some of the support equipment on the deck will need to be replaced...
Rocket made it to drone spaceport ship, but landed hard. Close, but no cigar this time. Bodes well for the future tho.
Ascent phase good. Dragon deployed to Space Station rendezvous orbit.
Launching in one minute
At mission control in California. Launch in 60 mins. Looks good so far.
Swimming on the moon  
Need to investigate the upper stage Z actuator. Was behaving strangely. Next launch attempt on Friday at 5am.
Taking questions now at  
Background on our attempt to land Falcon 9 rocket on a station-keeping drone ship in the Atlantic  
Drone spaceport ship heads to its hold position in the Atlantic to prepare for a rocket landing  
Ask me anything at 9pm Florida time (focused on tomorrow's 6am rocket launch)  
Btw, we are actually working on a charger that automatically moves out from the wall &amp; connects like a solid metal snake. For realz.
Model S range curves in detail by version  
Roadster upgrade details  
Reading The Culture series by Banks. Compelling picture of a grand, semi-utopian galactic future. Hopefully not too optimistic about AI.
Roadster upgrade will enable non-stop travel from LA to SF -- almost 400 mile range. Details tmrw. Merry Christmas!
Nothing against all the oatmeal-raisin cookies out there. Just be yourself.
Really should be a rule that oatmeal-raisin cookies can't look too much like choc chip. Doppelgänger cookie trickery!
I'd recommend competing for the $10M Learning XPRIZE. Illiteracy is the wellspring of poverty.  
Tesla fast battery swap details  
Pack swap now operating in limited beta mode for SF to LA route. Can swap battery faster than visiting a gas station. Tesla blog out soon.
Falcon/Dragon launch punted to early Jan. Need time to review all systems thoroughly again.
Dune series by Herbert also brilliant. He advocates placing limits on machine intelligence.
Reread Asimov's Foundation series. Brilliant.
Welcome back  to run the  communications team!
_AA_Carmack That works for Dragon, but hard to do for something long like Falcon
The flight grid fins look like the ones on this test we did, but larger:  
_AA_Carmack No choice. Entry velocity too high for a precision landing with N2 thrusters alone. Must have aero surfaces for pitch trim.
_Gardi Using legs as air brakes to drop terminal velocity in half requires slight redesign &amp; more data. Maybe flight 21.
Grid fins are stowed on ascent and then deploy on reentry for "x-wing" style control. Each fin moves independently for pitch/yaw/roll.
Base is 300 ft by 100 ft, with wings that extend width to 170 ft. Will allow refuel &amp; rocket flyback in future.
Testing operation of hypersonic grid fins (x-wing config) going on next flight  
Cuteness overload MT “: A baby baboon snuggled with a teddy bear    
About the Nevada deal with Tesla ...  
Really hate it when companies bring out an awesome show car and then you can never actually buy it. So lame.
Rumors about canceling Falcon wing doors are false. At Tesla, the production car will always be better than the show car.
Tesla comic book  
 unfettered certainly and at very low cost
SpaceX is still in the early stages of developing advanced micro-satellites operating in large formations. Announcement in 2 to 3 months.
Astronauts Play With Blobs of Water in Zero Gravity  
Review of performance version of dual motor Model S by   
Deepest sympathies to the families of the pilots and the Virgin Galactic team
Sorry to hear about the  launch. Hope they recover soon.
Also, lease price improvement is due to US Bank deal. It is *not* a discount. Revenue to Tesla is unchanged.
Article in  re Tesla sales is incorrect. September was a record high WW and up 65% year-over-year in North America.
Was going to work out this morning. Went to IHOP instead.
Infrared video of Falcon rocket reentry captured by  tracking cameras  
Michigan auto dealers trying to pass anti-consumer legislation  
Kinda trippy seeing myself on . I've watched the show ever since the J vs SC short. Brian Boitano!
Dual Motor Model S with Autopilot  
Just got word that the cumulative miles of the  worldwide Tesla fleet passed half a billion!
I love the Internet. Comments had me literally ROFL. No, it wasn't intentional. Glad I didn't mention the other letter!
About time to unveil the D and something else  
“: The House Science, Space and Technology Committee hearing on global warming.  
 Good suggestion :)
Calendar app w tap to nav &amp; traffic predictor in Tesla V6.0 release will radically improve how the car adapts to the owner over time
Would also like to congratulate , fellow winner of the  commercial crew program
This is the Crew Dragon spacecraft design that we unveiled earlier this year:  
Deeply honored and appreciative of the trust that  has placed in  for the future of human spaceflight
Official Gigafactory address to be: Electric Avenue, McCarran, Nevada
_Snipes sounds about right
Meeting with _en in a building called …  
Just did crazy Japanese game show called 逆転の法則. I have no idea what happened, but it was awesome  
Excellent explanation of the diff betw getting to orbit vs space (suggested by )  
Handing over the first Tesla Model S cars in Japan  
_satoh It was exactly what I was looking for
Long exposure of AsiaSat 6 transiting to geo orbit over China  
Noodles in Shinjuku  
Launch in ~1.5 hours if weather clears. Lightning tower struck earlier, but no effect on rocket or satellite  
The graph that really matters    
  Expansion to Madrid already underway. Map is being updated. All of Spain &amp; Portugal by end of 2015.
Model S limits torque if brake &amp; accel simul pressed. Going to zero torque with brake press would be a safety hazard.
 _Europe I agree. We are fixing this plan. Updated map coming soon.
 That has been my goal from the beginning. Need the Gigafactory for Model 3.
Ad taken out in Palo Alto Daily by two Model S owners is right. Many of the suggestions will be implemented soon.  
Three engine F9R Dev1 vehicle auto-terminated during test flight. No injuries or near injuries. Rockets are tricky …
Wikception  
 Yes. Technically Model 3 or maybe three horizontal bars. Won't be three vertical bars.
   Am a bit under the weather, but will do it!
Model S drivetrain warranty increased to infinite miles, applies retroactively ...  
Long exposure of the Falcon 9 predawn launch from Cape Canaveral  
High velocity reentry (2700 lbs/sqft) appeared to succeed, but, as expected, not enough propellant to land for this and the next mission.
Falcon 9 flight 11 to geosynchronous transfer orbit completed on target this morning  
Love EFF “: EFF inaugurates “Stupid Patent of the Month”   by ”
Hope we're not just the biological boot loader for digital superintelligence. Unfortunately, that is increasingly probable
While on the subject of AI risk, Our Final Invention by  is also worth reading
  Yeah, Daemon is a great read
  Mass Effect 2 is one of the best games ever. Also love Saints Row IV.
Worth reading Superintelligence by Bostrom. We need to be super careful with AI. Potentially more dangerous than nukes.
Guardians of the Galaxy is great. Best line is when Star-Lord says his spaceship looks like a Jackson Pollock painting under black light.
On annual camping trip w kids. Trying a place just south of Carmel in California this year.
“: Soft water landing of Falcon 9 rocket booster.    Full update:  
Looks like body slam, maybe from a self-generated wave
Detailed review of rocket telemetry needed to tell if due to initial splashdown or subsequent tip over and body slam
Rocket booster reentry, landing burn &amp; leg deploy were good, but lost hull integrity right after splashdown (aka kaboom)
Flight 10 of Falcon 9 was good. All six ORBCOMM satellites deployed on target.
 _Canada A lot of Canadian Superchargers are in work and will start going live in the next month or so
Tesla Superchargers delivered over 1GWh last month. Long distance driving growing exponentially  
Tesla Model S named top model in perceived quality   via 
Test flight of Falcon 9-R with deployable grid fins for better hypersonic thru subsonic control  
Goal is for unsubsidized solar power to cost less than grid electricity from coal or fracked gas
SolarCity to build the world's largest advanced solar panel factory in upstate New York  
Edmunds beats Tesla LA-NY record by several hours! “: Made it! Our Model S made LA-NY run in 67 hrs and 21 mins"
Apparently, lots of confused media inquiries about blog title. Look, we just to make sure they don't set us up the bomb.
Regarding Tesla patents  
_Dale I do seriously need a haircut :)
Ok, but the sloths kinda had it coming "Humans Blamed for Extinction of Mammoths &amp; Giant Sloths"  
Recording of Dragon V2 unveil at  
Amazing repair job of Falcon 9 ocean landing vid by  forum. Now shows leg deploy  
Model S in drag queen competition   
Prince Albert &amp; Princess Charlene drove a Tesla around the track to open  Monaco! The honor is much appreciated :)  
 When we launch I want to know that SpaceX has done everything possible to keep the astronauts safe. Only a few more years to go.
 Dragon V1.1 doesn't have a launch escape system. Probably comparable reliability to Shuttle, but we need to do better.
 Just the air in Dragon. Technically, if a few humans had stowed aboard Dragon on the last flight, they would've been ok.
 First, the cheese. Then, the mouse.
The next Dragon mission to the Space Station will carry our first live mammals: 40 mousetronauts!  
Contracting official's new job raises questions  
Either way, this case certainly deserves close examination by the DoD Inspector General per 's request  
Reason I believe this is likely is that Correll first tried to work at SpaceX, but we turned him down. Our competitor, it seems, did not.
V likely AF official Correll was told by ULA/Rocketdyne that a rich VP job was his if he gave them a sole source contract
Air Force official awards $10B+ contract uncompeted &amp; then takes lucrative job w funds recipient  
Great progress by  members repairing the Falcon 9 ocean landing video  
 may all technology in the future follow the zeroth law...
 I would be happy to help
Worth seeing  by _Favreau. Make sure to plan for a meal afterwards!
Trouble in Missouri. Auto dealers trying to sneak in a monopoly creation bill today  
 ~40%
Second flight of Falcon 9-R. 1000m, hover and land (with cows)  
Cover drops on May 29. Actual flight design hardware of crew Dragon, not a mockup.
Sounds like this might be a good time to unveil the new Dragon Mk 2 spaceship that  has been working on w . No trampoline needed
 almost
 no problem
 yes
 Superchargers in Canada will go live in 6 to 8 weeks. Update on forums shortly.
Letter from  to DoD Inspector General questioning uncompeted space launch contract  
100th  Supercharger goes live  
FTC blog supports direct car sales as good for consumers  
Flight computers continued transmitting for 8 seconds after reaching the water. Stopped when booster went horizontal.
Data upload from tracking plane shows landing in Atlantic was good! Several boats enroute through heavy seas.
 Rocket boost stage reaching 0 m/s in one piece :) Will know soon. Odds not high.
Last known state for rocket boost stage is 360 m/s, Mach 1.1, 8.5 km altitude and roll rate close to zero (v important!)
Orbit insertion and Dragon deploy all good. Falcon reentry burn also good. Waiting for landing data from tracking plane.
Falcon 9-Reusable with (now retired) Grasshopper test rig in background  
Hexacopter drone vid of 1st F9 rocket booster takeoff &amp; landing w flight design legs  
 Need to make sure precision return from hypersonic velocity works in ocean before transitioning to land
Heavy seas in Atlantic preventing our recovery ship from being on station. Maybe they can help?  
This is 1st ever orbital rocket launch w landing legs. Will attempt leg deploy &amp; soft landing out to sea.
Launch to the Space Station in just under three hours if weather holds  
Honored that  would entrust  with the Apollo 11 (first moon landing) launch pad  
 Also, breakfast at Tesla is self-serve cereal (no distinction for execs) and the person mentioned isn't actually an employee
Leasing a Model S takes 5 mins online, no signatures &amp; one tap on car center screen to accept when delivered
Tesla US business leasing program went live today  
  Yeah, that's worth a read
What could possibly go wrong?  
   That would definitely help
   Yeah, that about sums it up
Bloomberg article today also has oddly false details. I don't eat breakfast at Tesla and drink coffee, not juice.
The  show about Silicon Valley missed the mark in some ways, but I didn't hate it, as  reporter claimed
Some oddly inaccurate news stories of late ...
 Coming soon
 Once 5.9 is rolled out to the whole fleet and all looks good, we will roll out 6.0 to owners on our public beta program
 Some challenges w 5.9 rollout, as it contains software specially written for car owners in Norway &amp; Belgium
Review of Model S by _TopGear much appreciated  
Announcing a revolutionary Tesla driving technology  
Snowed in at Mt. Rushmore   
Now having breakfast at ...  
Just stayed at the Rocket (yes!) Motel near Mt Rushmore. Sudden blizzard making road trip tricky  
 80% to 30%
 agreed
Russian state TV threatens US with nuclear war, showing missile arc &amp; mushroom cloud images  
Regarding Gov. Christie's action to impede direct sales of automobiles in New Jersey  
Working on a Model S environmental impact blog this weekend to counteract BS like the  graphite story. Beyond ridiculous...
 Yes, I'm confident that Tesla will do something with them.
 Not true. The amount of graphite in our car is small, comes from Japan and is mined in a very clean way.
 Well, now that Satoshi Nakamoto has been discovered, I guess it is case closed ... :)
Just discovered a great Tesla ad made by 2 recent college grads. I love it!  
New Jersey auto dealers subverting democratic process to try to block Tesla sales  
Interesting “:Physicist proposes a new type of computing at SXSW. Check out orbital computing  
_tindall Yeah, I'm giving a talk for homeless kids at the Union Rescue Mission in LA
 Thanks, I really appreciate your support!
About to testify before Senate against ULA (Lockheed and Boeing) monopoly contract for national security launches
Model S receives highest customer satisfaction score of any car ever surveyed by Consumer Reports  
All four landing legs now mounted on Falcon 9  
However, F9 will continue to land in the ocean until we prove precision control from hypersonic thru subsonic regimes
Mounting landing legs (~60 ft span) to Falcon 9 for next month's Space Station servicing flight  
Welcome back Jade Rabbit!   
Auto dealers trying to pass a law to enforce their monopoly in Ohio &amp; prevent consumer choice...  
Tesla V6 software upload coming soon. Need to make sure it is "awesome" - Lord Business
Saw The Lego Movie earlier today. Brilliant writing and humor! Loved the "Everything is awesome..." theme song.
Value is holding up "Tesla car is worth more used than new | MNN -  
Tesla LA to NY Supercharger rally just completed in 76 hours across northern route in dead of winter thru heavy snow!
Tesla cars are now in all 50 US states (map credit Edmunds)!  
Two teams from Tesla aiming to set a cross-country EV speed record this week. Departing Fri from LA, arriving Sun in NY.
Will be doing the LA-NY family road trip over Spring Break. Made everyone watch National Lampoon's Vacation as prep.
Tesla Supercharger network now energized from New York to LA, both coast + Texas! Approx 80% of US population covered.
Tesla policy is to charge the same price (+ taxes &amp; shipping) everywhere in the world  
Rough cut of Falcon 9 Thaicom flight  
 Thanks Bill! Sure is a great start to 2014 :)
Preparing to launch a Thaicom satellite to geostationary super-sync orbit at 5pm Florida time  
  Ideally, the S should just hold position when it knows that's what you really want
   Merry Christmas!
 Yes, definitely needs a huge amount of battery capacity. ~1/3 of energy produced during day must be stored
This is why I think solar power will be the primary long term solution  
 true
220 ft tall mobile crane to carry the rocket around in the vertical  
SolarCity launches Give Power Foundation  
Sock monkey of destruction!  
Rest in peace, Nelson Mandela. A man both good and great.
Should mention that the battery cells used for this are 200 Wh/kg vs 250 for Model S. No short term supply constraint.
Solar power w batteries will be the primary (not exclusive) means of sustainable energy production  
View of Earth from upper stage rear view camera at 8,000 miles  
Restart was good, apogee raised to 80k km (50k miles). Yes!!!
Reached parking orbit. Now coasting towards equator, where the upper stage will, if all goes well, restart to raise apogee
Live video feed of launch at  
About an hour away from launch. I'd like to thank _Satellites for taking a chance on . We've given it our all.
 cool :)
 I agree. Will be restored shortly.
 It was fixed this weekend, so he should try the test again.
 The writer of this article had a problem with his 12V battery, so main pack was constantly charging it.
 Doesn't sound right. If it is, we certainly need to fix it. Investigating...
German govt reviews Tesla Model S fires. All due to high speed impacts, no injuries. Concludes: no defects, no recall  
All known rocket anomalies resolved. Will spend another day rechecking to be sure. Launch attempt tmrw eve w Wed as backup.
The gas generator is a small rocket engine that powers the turbopump, which produces 7000 horsepower &amp; weighs 160 lbs
Engines are cycling cleanly w ground pneumatics. Replaced gas generator on engine 9 (center) as a precautionary measure.
Abort was caused by oxygen in ground side TEA-TEB. Upper stage on separate internal circuit, so doesn't face same risk.
Rocket engines are healthy, but cleaning turbopump gas generators will take another day. Aiming for Mon eve launch.
 Will do. Probably at least a few days. Depends on whether we need to pull the turbopumps.
We called manual abort. Better to be paranoid and wrong. Bringing rocket down to borescope engines ...
If launch aborts, we will bring the rocket down for engine inspection, so probably a few days before next attempt
Increasing helium spin start pressure. Probably &lt;50% chance of passing all aborts, but worth a try. Countdown resuming ...
Launch aborted by autosequence due to slower than expected thrust ramp. Seems ok on closer inspection. Cycling countdown.
Live stream of launch at  
15 mins to liftoff  
  No, almost all fuel/ox is being reserved for SES satellite to give max chance of success
Model S Owner drives 3121 miles solo from Canada to Mexico  
Good description of the launch by :  
Don't actually mean to knock Honda -- their cars are solid -- but the park outside (or yr house might burn down) advice was awesome
 Model S can seat 5 adults, two kids and has a front trunk for luggage. Might work for you.
...but only if you like your house "Honda recalls Fit for fire risk, says park it outside   "
Saw pressure fluctuations on Falcon boost stage liquid oxygen tank. Want to be super careful, so pushing launch to Thurs.
At Disney World w kids for traditional prelaunch visit (first good flight was after riding Space Mountain)
Launch can be viewed live from Cape causeways or via   webcast around 5:30 local time on Monday
 Easier to make the plane change to equatorial orbit. Done in order to reduce satellite side delta V from 1800 m/s to 1500 m/s.
Will be toughest mission to date. Requires coast + upper stage restart + going to 80,000 km altitude (~1/4 way to moon).
Headed to Cape Canaveral tomorrow for first  geostationary satellite launch.
Tesla Model S Consumer Reports customer satisfaction survey highest of any car on road at 99/100  
Tesla is also extending the Model S warranty to cover any fire damage even if due solely to a driver accident
What makes this incredibly unjust is that the Model S to date has the best safety record of any car on the road (no injuries or deaths ever)
Why does a Tesla fire w no injury get more media headlines than 100,000 gas car fires that kill 100s of people per year?
Mission of Tesla   
SuperDraco rocket engine fired at full thrust w a printed Inconel chamber. Used for Dragon escape &amp; landing  
In other news, George Clooney reports that his iPhone 1 had a bug back in '07
Model S owner blogs about TN accident  
Thanks Woz! ": Here to pick up my new car! (at  w/ 2 others)"
Tesla West Coast Supercharger network now energized. Travel from Vancouver to Tijuana in styel!  
Giant dog topiary in Bilbao  
Rocket flight to 744m, hover &amp; return to launch pad (close shot from hexacopter drone)  
About the Model S fire ...  
  Yes, upper stage venting of liquid oxygen created a fast moving fuzzy white sphere in space over SA
Between this flight &amp; Grasshopper tests, I think we now have all the pieces of the puzzle to bring the rocket back home.
Rocket booster relit twice (supersonic retro &amp; landing), but spun up due to aero torque, so fuel centrifuged &amp; we flamed out
Launch was good. All satellites deployed at the targeted orbit insertion vectors.  
You can watch the launch at    
Looks good for a launch attempt today. Upper winds slightly exceed loads in high subsonic regime, but improving.
Water ice on Mars  
Sensible piece on status of climate change by   
Falcon 9 launch window is Sunday and Monday, assuming good weather at Vandenberg Air Force Base
Good progress harnessing that big fusion reactor in the sky  
Good Hyperloop feedback from Ansys. Am excited by how much it can be improved by open src contributions!  
Completed rocket static fire with all systems green this time. Launch window opens in 10 days  
Falcon 9 at sunset  
Am happy to hear that GM plans to develop an affordable 200 mile range electric car. Right target. Hope others do same.
Approach is 360 deg flush mounted tiny cameras + radar (prob not lidar). Lot of software &amp; hardware level image processing.
Engineers interested in working on autonomous driving, pls email autopilot.com. Team will report directly to me.
Intense effort underway at Tesla to develop a practical autopilot system for Model S
Will do another static fire of rocket to make sure all is good &amp; AF needs to test ICBMs, so probable launch Sept 29/30.
Full thrust achieved on 2 sec static fire. Some anomalies to be investigated, so launch date tbd.
Upcoming Falcon 9 demo has a lot of new technology, so the probability of failure is significant  
First of next gen Falcon 9 rockets rolls out to the launch pad at Vandenberg Air Force Base  
MT “:  Correction: Japan's levitating train hit 361 MPH   It will operate at 310”
It is crazy that the proposed California high speed rail only goes 200 mph w avg speed of 130 mph when Japan is 300 mph+
Video review of Model S vs. Aston Martin Rapide S by   
SpaceX SuperDraco inconel rocket chamber w regen cooling jacket emerges from EOS 3D metal printer  
Designing a rocket part w hand gestures &amp; then 3D printing it in a metal superalloy ...  
Was at Vandenberg today going over the upcoming next gen F9 rocket launch. Some tense days ahead  
_Favreau Yup. We saw it in the movie and made it real. Good idea!
Will post video next week of designing a rocket part with hand gestures &amp; then immediately printing it in titanium
And, uhh no (zillionth person who asked), I am not going to make an IM suit, however design by hand-manipulated hologram is actually useful.
 Reality is the best illusion
We figured out how to design rocket parts just w hand movements through the air (seriously). Now need a high frame rate holograph generator.
Model S achieves best safety rating of any car ever tested by US govt  
Same rocket flight, but this time with cows!  
Latest rocket test flight: hard lateral deviation, stabilize &amp; hover, rapid descent back to pad  
Btw, this is not the very latest version. Will post an updated version with several late arriving corrections in a few hours.
Hyperloop Alpha at   and    
Pulled all nighter working on Hyperloop (as did others). Hopefully not too many mistakes. Will publish link at 1:30 PDT.
Hangout with  &amp; me tomorrow at 9am California time  
“_inc: “The universe is prob littered w/ the 1-planet graves of cultures which made the sensible economic  
One of the first Tesla Supercharger stations in Europe is being built in Cinderella, Norway 
Best saying ever “: there is a saying in Mexico: "El miedo no anda en burro" meaning "Fear doesn't ride on a donkey"”
Oh yeah, well Tesla will study a plan to study the GM team that's studying Tesla, so there!  
_Gardi your guess is the closest I've seen anyone guess so far. Pod diameter probably around 2m
 I really hate patents unless critical to company survival. Will publish Hyperloop as open source.
 Yes, it is a purely propulsive landing, but using the huge landing gear A frames as air brakes. Landing prop &lt; 5% of vehicle mass
Will publish Hyperloop alpha design by Aug 12. Critical feedback for improvements would be much appreciated.
Just completed full mission duration firing of next gen Falcon 9 booster. V proud of the boost stage team for overcoming many tough issues.
  New spacesuit almost done. Hoping to unveil by end of year.
So true “: BitTorrent packet goes to a bar and asks for beer. Everyone in the bar who already has a beer gives him a sip.”
UDP (yeah you know me) 3X
TCP packet walks into a bar &amp; says “I’d like a beer.” Barman replies “You’d like a beer?” “Yes,” replies TCP packet,“I’d like a beer.”
Latest vertical landing rocket vid. 325M altitude, hold against wind, land w T/W&gt;1, radar in loop  
Woohoo, Tesla direct sales petition passed the 100k threshold! Thanks a lot to everyone that helped!!
Have been reading about Henry Fielding, who had the most excellent pen name of Captain Hercules Vinegar
One learns something new every day “: A “Buttload” is an actual measurement of volume - Equal to 126 gallons.”
 Thanks :)
_ace Taking action. Will be a 7 day grace period for $2500 ext warranty. Neg margin at that price, so must unfortunately raise.
Please support the White House petition to allow direct sales of cars to consumers in all states  
 Turning recirc off, windows closed and the right film on rear glass usually works. Am asking HVAC engineering to investigate.
 Tesla service can do coating or can be done by any auto glass coating company. My car is done on side &amp; rear
 Turn off AC recirc, so that cool air flows out thru rear vents &amp; get IR coating on rear glass.
 will do
 The NY auto dealers lost in court, so now they are funding a bill in NY legislature to block Tesla
Tesla pack swap vid still being edited (multiple camera angles). In meantime, this article contains a vid  
Tomorrow night: fastest gas pump in LA vs Tesla battery pack swap  
Partial recall of Model S  
Battery pack swap works with all Tesla Model S cars, past and present. It was always there.
 Shai actually got the idea from a visit to Tesla. The idea is obvious (many things allow battery swap), but the technology is not.
Video of battery pack swap will be posted to the Tesla website around 9:30pm, so those attending will see this first.
Live pack swap demo on Thurs night at 8pm California time at our design studio in Hawthorne. Seeing is believing.
Battery storage of solar power needed for night operation &amp; to buffer grid during day. Beta projects are going well.
A long way to go before most power generation is solar, but the second derivative bodes well  
1st long duration firing of the new generation Falcon 9 rocket ~1.5 million pounds of vac thrust  
 True
We need more women in aerospace like Gwynne!   
Easier said than done. There is a lot of pressure from investors. It is hard not to feel super bad if u don't make ur qtr.
Mars requires developing complex technology over a decade+, but market cares about next 3 months. Result would be conflicting priorities.
 I don't have a publicist
No near term plans to IPO . Only possible in very long term when Mars Colonial Transporter is flying regularly.
Forgot to say one thing at Tesla annual shareholders meeting: just as my money was the first in, it will be the last out.
Love this image of Dragon docked to the Space Station as it orbits through dark side of Earth  
Vac thrust of 700 tons means avg of 14 tons/floor of structural steel for a 50 story building.
 50% higher. ~1.3 M lbs sea level and ~1.5 M lbs vacuum thrust. Will be 60% higher with some tweaks.
1st firing of Falcon 9-R advanced prototype rocket. Over 1M lbs thrust, enough to lift skyscraper  
Huge expansion of Tesla Supercharger network underway. Will cover LA to NY by end of year  
Bloomberg TV features debate of  vs some guy picking his nose  
 V much agree. Moreover, there is risk of severe non-linearities in feedback loops causing sudden warming.
You Can Fit A Lot Of Kindergartners In A Tesla Model S - Houston Chronicle  
Am thinking of doing a movie "sequel" of sorts to Thank You for Smoking. That was bad CO2 for indiv, this for the planet
Worth reading Merchants of Doubt. Same who tried to deny smoking deaths r denying climate change  
Yeah, climate change should really be considered a centrist issue, as it affects everyone.
Am not suggesting shutting down CO2 production, but rather to price in environmental cost &amp; shift to sustainable energy
Even if the answer is only on the order of 1%, we should still take immediate action, as there is only one atmosphere.
Right question to ask Dyson or others: what is probability that human actions could cause catastrophic climate change?
What most serious scientists have a problem with is the notion of certainty about *any* subject. That is not the point.
 Very few. Scientific consensus at time of Columbus was world was round  
Sorry for all the heavy stuff abt climate change, but I really thought world wd take action sooner. No time for subtlety
  Exactly
In reality, 97% of scientists agree that we face serious human generated climate change  
Climate change deniers claim "scientists disagree", same rebuttal used by tobacco industry about lung cancer for decades
Good article on "Climate Change" vs "Global Warming" referred by   
Was beat up pretty badly as a kid &amp; left me w jagged septum. Harder to breathe as I got older, so time to fix.
Had a minor operation, so am in bed in meds. Probably shouldn't be tweeting :)
Sign of a good design is that it feels and is much bigger on inside than looks on outside
 Awesome. We really need to promote that fact in the US. A CO2 tax will not cause economy to grind to a halt!
Would love to do a pickup truck. Something w ultra low cg for sports car handling, dynamic air suspension &amp; mega torque.
Technically, I "got rich" from Zip2 &amp; PayPal w zero govt anything, then put 100% of that into SpaceX, Tesla &amp; SolarCity.
If consumption is low, then the tax is proportionately low. We should prob not have tax on basic foods &amp; critical meds.
 Carbon produced by a  rocket flight is roughly equal to one 747 flight. No, we should not be exempt.
Net of gas savings, a Tesla is $550 to $600/month with down payment taken care of by tax credits. Maybe less costly then it first seems.
Yes, am arguing against subsidies and in favor of a tax on the end bad created. Market will then achieve best solution.
Trees are net consumers of CO2, so technically we would pay them money :)
Exactly. Seems crazy to risk the CO2 chemical experiment when we have to find another solution anyway.
Big difference between taxing people and taxing purchases (ie consumption). Much better to emphasize the latter.
 The collective wisdom of the market is usually (not always) better than the smartest govt regulator.
Me &amp; other private money funded Tesla for first 7 years, got IPO+ govt money for 3, now paid back. Yes, carbon tax would be a better way.
_ There should be a constitutional amendment to redo the tax code every ten years, just like we do a census.
Weight of scientific evidence. Taxes don't ban a purchase, they just increase cost. Am against bans, except in extreme cases.
Exactly. Better to tax known bad thing and incent desired outcome, instead of subsidizing particular solution paths. Let market decide.
Perhaps. I am in favor of fair, simple taxes that are neutral on most things, incent good &amp; disincent bad.
Great article on Tesla-dealer battle by Leilani Munter (), who lives in NC  
_ Belief in climate change isn't necessary. Even a small probability of a severe outcome justifies a carbon tax.
 Making rockets
 Don't like having a zillion tweets in the log. Makes it tough to wade through if someone wants to read my tweet history.
 We created electric cars to help solve the problem, not because we thought it was easy money. Still isn't.
And, since we will run out of oil anyway, why risk the future of all life on Earth simply to delay sustainable energy?
Those who would deny climate change should ask themselves what happens if they are wrong  
More importantly,  failed to pay back $1.3B. Apart those 2 points, you were totally 1st  
As many have already noted,  is a division of Fiat, an Italian company. We specifically said first *US* company.
Interview with  about Tesla and DOE loan gets into some of the details  
Tesla wired the funds to repay the DOE loan today. Only US car company to have fully repaid govt  
 Physics
_andre I'm a big fan of ultracapacitors. Was going to do my PhD at Stanford on them. But we need a breakthrough in energy density...
  High pressure helium pneumatic bolts and pistons. No explosives.
 Cool, will get one plus another chicken
 You're welcome. It did seem like the chicken of destiny xx
Petting zoo left a chicken behind at the park. Now we have a pet chicken.
 Soon Model S will feature druidic dwarves dancing around a miniature stone henge
 Well, you see, by making it go to 11, that makes it louder than loud :)
Supercharger announcement pushed to next week. Something else this week.
 physics + a broad range of engineering. Worth taking humanities courses too, particularly history.
 Yes, usually several times more energy over the course of the year than is needed by the Model S
 we do
 Harder than that, but it is a software vs hardware change
Btw, vast majority of credit for SolarCity should go to Lyndon &amp; Peter Rive &amp; their awesome team. I'm just a small part.
  Over the air upgrade coming in a few months to allow tethering (and other things).
Improving service and honing manufacturing efficiency are the biggest short term challenges. Not sales constrained.
 It can do hands free right now. Being able to text people via voice while driving would be a good feature to add...
 Mostly water or coffee at home. When I'm out, will have Macallan neat or vodka with something.
 It can dig up almost anything.
 Yeah, we don't do a good job of telling people about this feature. Requires hardware unfortunately.
  Given the extreme burn, shorts are pushing every possible fear, uncertainty &amp; doubt story  
 Tesla software knits together Google Voice, Slacker, Gracenote &amp; others and streams over 3G (will be LTE later)
 People tell me Cory Johnson is a shill for the shorts. Don't know if true, but he sure behaves that way.
Would also recommend the Cheese Shop, Spam or Fish License by Monty Python.
Hold down voice button &amp; say "Play Amish Paradise by Weird Al Yankovic". Model S can play almost any song via Internet.
 Don't forget the mystery announcement. Part 5 of the trilogy.
There is a way for the Tesla Model S to be recharged throughout the country faster than you could fill a gas tank.
 Totally agree. Tesla will circle back and do something cool for Roadsters next year.
 Stay tuned
Just want to say thanks to customers &amp; investors that took a chance on Tesla through the long, dark night. We wouldn't be here without you.
 Thanks Bill!
Am a fan of Larry, Sergey &amp; Google in general, but self-driving cars comments to Bloomberg were just off-the-cuff. No big announcement here
Tesla priority is electrification of cars, so priority is Model S, Model X, then mass market third gen vehicle &amp; truck
_sal exactly
Creating an autopilot for cars at Tesla is an important, but not yet top priority. Still a few years from production.
 Tested it myself this weekend and was working well. Some songs have licensing prohibiting direct request.
Anyone interested in doing ultra hardcore vehicle engineering at Tesla, please apply!
Chris Porritt from Aston Martin just joined as head of vehicle engineering at Tesla  
 Yup, it is super far. Moon is basically in our back yard relative to Mars.
 Definitely a lot of potential for geothermal, but depends on well depth. Too expensive in most places.
 Yeah, that probably makes sense.
  Most people have never heard of Nikola Tesla. That will hopefully change over time.
  yes, that has been the goal from the beginning
_justin It can definitely strain relationships, but I loved doing my first company with my brother
 Norway rocks!
 Earnings call next week, then Supercharger week after and then... the mystery announcement/demonstration :)
 you're welcome :)
 we need a compelling video that convinces TX lawmakers to pass the direct sales law just approved by their committee.
_TheStreet Guaranteeing the world's best resale value in industry is unprecedented and backed up my other assets. Why isn't that good?
_  Chris is great. Took a long time for me to find someone w truly hardcore engineering skills, who fully understood the system.
Am getting lots of questions about the big Supercharger announcement. Aiming to do that the week after next.
 Yes, this does put an indirect floor on resale value. Should help all owners.
Tesla raises Model S resale value guarantee to highest in auto industry  
 Side boosters fall short &amp; center core goes too far + Florida is heavily populated. Landing permission tricky :)
 We can't formally provide a guarantee w/o restating accounting, but I feel confident about the value anyway.
 Yeah, that is super tricky. Will have to sacrifice a lot of payload to boost back or land on ocean platform.
_sal Yes, your article (and many others) rightly identified that we made a mistake. New financing is not perfect, but much better.
_Nestos The legs are nested tight against the body of the rocket in flight, so rotate about 120 degrees to deploy
_setia More likely that pigs will fly over the frozen wastes of Hell. Clarkson doesn't understand technology.
 We did a ton of testing until they could handle 4X legally required impact energy. Extremely tough.
 High pressure helium. Needs to be ultra light. All 4 legs together (~60 ft span) weigh less than Model S.
F9R (pronounced F-niner) shows a little leg. Design is a nested, telescoping piston w A frame.  
 This is about getting a prior announcement right. Not part 4 yet.
Time to up the ante (and fix some mistakes). Tesla announcement tomorrow.
 We're aiming for late 2015, but NASA needs to have overlapping capability to be safe. Would do the same
 Anne's role is launch site engineering. Don't think she has anything against media -- just not her role.
  Cool :)
_sal Just read it. Good piece.
 Maybe a v long time from now. Paying div is a sign that a company cannot find good ways to spend money.
 Our software is requesting the right song, but Slacker has a bug in their code. Supposed to be fixed by tomorrow.
_inc  Interesting piece
Auto Dealer Sterling McCall makes the case for Tesla direct sales in Texas  
Congrats to  and  on supersonic test flight!
First test of the Falcon 9-R (reusable) ignition system. Not long now before the hold down fire  
 Am for good public transit in LA, but the pace of that construction makes the 405 look fast.
 This argument is a bit silly. A city will not grow to infinite size just because there isn't traffic.
  Cool, thanks for buying our car!
 Thanks, important clarification. Tesla announcements are always about making product experience better. Market follows eventually.
Announcement of new  strategy tomorrow. Tesla owners will like this.
 Cool. Just read and watched!
Seems to be some stormy weather over in Shortville these days
 _la Exactly. DMV Comm overruled good recommendation of Hearing Officer.
  Please contact DMV Commissioner and Governor. This is not good for the people of Virginia.
Not all good news. Virginia DMV Commissioner just denied Tesla a dealer license, despite Hearing Officer being in favor.
_Sight_Full  we have great neighbors!
 Try this:  
Wringing water out of a towel in zero g is way trippy   via 
 evolving
 yes
 Good idea!
Grasshopper rocket flies up 250m, holds against wind and lands. Vid taken from our hexacopter  
 Will post a video of the latest Grasshopper flight tomorrow (taken from the camera on our new hexacopter).
Now with actual picture :)  
Cool picture of Io crossing Jupiter sent to me by . Would be amazing to visit in person one day.
Congratulations to ! “: Orbital's Antares rocket makes successful test flight  
_inc   We have a lot of heavy lifting equipment. Will ask my team to send it over.
Heart goes out to people of central Texas, home of SpaceX TX. All resources at disposal to help in any way.
A  petition to allow direct sales of cars by manufacturers:   Please vote here too!
If you live in Texas and are pro Tesla, please vote in the  opinion poll!  
Interesting... "Putin unveils $50B drive for Russian space supremacy   via _com
 Stay tuned for a big Supercharger announcement in a few weeks. Definitely have you covered.
 Thanks! Hearing from constituents is super important to counteract the influence of the dealer lobby.
New York judge states: "... dealers cannot utilize the Franchised Dealer Act as a means to sue their competitors". Exactly!
New York judge just ruled in favor Tesla, dismissing the legal attack by auto dealers to prevent direct sales!
Yay for democracy!  asks: Should Tesla Motors be able to sell directly to consumers?  
 Yup, you're right
Just wanted to say thanks to everyone for testifying yesterday in Austin. Will hang around after press conf to thank people in person.
 already partly here with rocket development, but will make it a lot bigger with the launch site
Just had Texas BBQ for lunch in Capitol Building. About to head to House Committee hearing to advocate for Tesla in TX.
In TX to make the case for allowing Tesla to sell cars. Pls come to Capitol Room E2.014 at 1:30!  
Which leads me to my next subject of gun control ... just kidding
No more political comments for me now that I've shot off both my feet.
 When a person dies, the right thing to do is remember the good more than the bad. Not a day for hate (if there is ever such).
At the risk of losing more "cool points", I like Reagan too! However, I also like Obama, Clinton &amp; JFK. Good people on both sides...
 Am not trying to accumulate cool points. She was far from perfect, but her actions, on balance, were good.
 Her later years are debatable, but her early years are not imo. Britain went from dreary to Great again.
Always admired Margaret Thatcher -- she was tough, but sensible &amp; fair, much like my English Nana  
 We went through literally hundreds of variants of red trying to find something original that didn't suck.
 Do all the intro courses for mech, EE, aero and physics, then specialize in the one you like most.
New Tesla red going down assembly line for the first time. We spent a lot of time on this color!  
Sarah Palin calls Tesla a loser. Am deeply wounded.    Btw, Model S warranty does cover "bricking".
 Exactly
Great explanation of the  announcement by   
 Hoping to open the Century City Tesla store this month. It is my neighborhood mall, so I'm there all the time.
  We are working hard to make that happen!
 Should be late 2014 for US and early 2015 for Europe.
 July!
Am headed to TX next week to thank people personally for supporting Tesla. Please head to SB 1659 @ 8am tomorrow 
Certainly true that many people believe that Tesla and SpaceX are powered by the  Infinite Improbability Drive :)
Today's Tesla announcement is actually the 2nd in a 5 part trilogy (love Douglas Adams)
 You never know ...
 Thanks Michael. Beauty of over the air software updates is that the product keeps improving even after you buy it.
 Thanks Jeremy! Good seeing you in LA. Awesome job with Yelp!
To be clear, Tesla is in California, so it is not April Fool's yet! Also, some may differ, but imo the Tues news is arguably more important.
First profitable Q for Tesla thanks to awesome customers &amp; hard work by a super dedicated team  
About to do chocolate egg hunt with all the kids. Candy bonanza! Happy Easter!
Thanks Bob “: Tesla Takes on TX Dealer's Association (MA too) - Repeal anti-competitive dealer laws -  
Sorry, correct link is:  
If you support Tesla in Texas, please contact your state Senate or House member. Free enterprise!  
Auto dealers in Texas are trying to stop Tesla. Would appreciate your help in fighting for what's right  
Rocket fairing almost ready for deployment test in vacuum chamber. Man lift on right for scale  
Can't make this stuff up: “: hah and that's the name of a fire extinguisher  
A123 battery company renames itself B456 after bankruptcy (really).
Recovery ship has secured Dragon. Powering down all secondary systems. Cargo looks A ok.
Telemetry says main parachutes deployed ... now visually confirmed
Recovery ship just heard the sonic booms from Dragon reentry and has data transmission lock.
Dragon deorbit burn was good. All thrusters operating. On target for splashdown.
Future will indeed be rooftop solar + battery pack, w utility company just providing backup power   
Slight change of date to ensure no end of quarter distractions -- will be Tues next week.
Really exciting  announcement coming on Thursday. Am going to put my money where my mouth is in v major way.
There's crazy, there's batsh*t crazy, then there's North Korea crazy...  
 It will be slightly smaller w fewer features as std. Think Audi A4 or BMW 3 vs Model S being S7 or M5
 yep
  sure :)
. Model S works great in cold. Highest sales/capita are in Norway and we have a ton of customers in Canada.
But when considering savings of gas v electricity, true cost vs gas cars is more like $25k for a v sweet ride
. $30k in 2013 $ (ie + inflation) w 200+ mile range w some really cool tech that we can't talk about yet.
. It has always been my dream to produce a low cost, compelling electric car. We are 3 to 4 years away. Wish it could be sooner.
 was this in a test drive car (those are all about to be upgraded) or a current customer car?
Review of Tesla Model S by . Good article w minor errors addressed in reader comments  
When Shoemaker-Levy comet hit Jupiter in 94, it made an Earth size hole. We wd be super dead if it actually hit Earth  
Probably true imo “: Dinosaur-killing rock 'was a comet'  
My talk at TED with    
 Yeah, Plum Brook Space Power Facility  Glenn Research Center. Help from the Glenn team much appreciated.
Testing separation of F9 rocket fairing (can hold a city bus) in world's largest vacuum chamber  
Sharing a metaphysical milkshake with   
 Cool, I'm glad you like it!
Craig Venter talks about flu vaccines and the Tesla Model S. Gesundheit!  
Using Über to order a Tesla Model S  with  and   
The Johnny Cash hover slam!   
Will show Johnny Cash hover slam rocket video for the first time in about 15 mins. Test footage only 36 hrs old. 
Check out Model S at Tesla Austin Gallery at The Domain opening today! I will stop by this eve and tomorrow morning.
 nice pic!
 Not yet. I look forward to giving that a try.
Random trivia: my grandfather &amp; great grandfather were both born in Minnesota. I was named after my GGF.
Minnesota auto dealers tried to pass legislation to block Tesla stores. Bill was just defeated in Senate. Thanks MN!
 SpaceX is expanding launch ops at Canaveral too. Need 2 locations to handle flight rate and avoid weather risk
Arrived Austin. Talking with TX House about creating an orbital launch complex near Brownsville, then  keynote tmrw
 Pretty much. Couldn't leave the country of Ibsen without doing something cultural!
Saw a play about Stalin in Norwegian. Like watching mimes with emoticons doing Solzhenitsyn.  
Am in Oslo to thank the Norwegian customers of  personally. Highest Model S orders per capita in the world.
Just received  docking clearance from . Will begin orbital maneuvers to Space Station at 11pm Pacific time.
Would also like to thank  for allowing us to use their long range comm system for Dragon in free drift.
Just want to say thanks to  for being the world's coolest customer. Looking forward to delivering the goods!
Orbit raising burn successful. Dragon back on track.
Thruster pods one through four are now operating nominally. Preparing to raise orbit. All systems green.
Pods 1 and 4 now online and thrusters engaged. Dragon transitioned from free drift to active control. Yes!!
Attempting bring up of thruster pods 2 and 4
Solar array deployment successful
Thruster pod 3 tank pressure trending positive. Preparing to deploy solar arrays.
About to pass over Australia ground station and command inhibit override
Holding on solar array deployment until at least two thruster pods are active
Issue with Dragon thruster pods. System inhibiting three of four from initializing. About to command inhibit override.
Falcon 9 delivered Dragon to its target orbit. All good on the rocket.
T minus 22 mins to launch mission 3 to dock with the Space Station  
Computer glitch found by  avionics while bench testing on IM. Couldn't replicate on vehicle. Launch proceeding...
Launch on track for tomorrow morning at 10:10 am Cape Canaveral time
 @_chrissimmons Exactly. Then no need for clean energy subsidies, as externality is priced into mkt behavior
@_ChrisSimmons A carbon tax would affect coal even more than gasoline, so electricity would also become more expensive
One often hears that there is no point in a US carbon tax unless China acts. Well, they just did  
Rocket static fire  Cape Canaveral launch pad looks good. Engines generated 433 tons of thrust, parameters nominal.
 Best is winning competitions like Formula SAE, design/build/fly or other evidence of exceptional eng ability
 Cool! Btw, thought you might appreciate that 1st flight of Dragon spacecraft carried a large wheel of cheese :)
Thanks ! “: The Model S delivered what  promised. A ride to make you re-think going electric.”
Appreciate thoughtful  article. Faith in  restored.
Revolutions don't happen if you just roll over to the powers that be. Got to fight for what you believe. That's why  
Genius move “:  Well, to be fair, they did use the controversial gimmick of actually charging up the car”
CNN about halfway through East Coast Supercharger test drive of  Model S w  &amp; 
Testing the Model S on a surface of pure ice and snow  
Btw, more free East Coast Superchargers coming soon. Will allow lower initial charge, v high speed trip &amp; long detours, like NYTimes drive.
 Yeah, Top Gear pretended the Tesla Roadster ran out of charge and they had to push it home. Logs showed 50 miles range left.
 Thanks Tom! Support of real Tesla customers like yourself who drive the car every day is v much appreciated.
Tesla data logging is only turned on with explicit written permission from customers, but after Top Gear BS, we always keep it on for media.
Tesla blog coming soon detailing what actually happened on Broder's NYTimes "range test". Also lining up other journalists to do same drive.
NYTimes article about Tesla range in cold is fake. Vehicle logs tell true story that he didn't actually charge to max &amp; took a long detour.
Busted “: Barack Obama: 'Look, I'm Just Going To Say It: I Collect Antique Nazi Memorabilia'  
Next Grasshopper rocket test is called the Johnny Cash Hover Slam (yeah baby!). Might be our first smoking crater...
SpaceX software engineering is doing an AMA on Reddit     
Our Great^n Grandfather  
No, they are not “: Are electric vehicles really a 'dead end'?  sure thinks so  
Wow, 180,000 American killed by other Americans since 9/11 vs only 33 by muslim terrorists  
Great spirit here in the Superdome. Awesome rally by the !! 
I love indoor flamethrowers  
My thoughts on the nature of the issue with the battery pack supplied to Boeing  
Desire to help Boeing is real &amp; am corresponding w 787 chief engineer. Junod's Esquire article had high fiction content.
Maybe already under control, but Tesla &amp; SpaceX are happy to help with the 787 lithium ion batteries.
What it feels like to ride a rocket   
To be super clear, I don't wish to (nor could I) mandate anything about a Mars Colony. Am just working on the tech to get people there.
Also, I am not the kale eating overlord of Mars (altho kale has its moments)  
Nice story about a Model S coast to coast road trip. By end of year, it will be Superchargers all the way!  
This gives a sense of what Mars would look like after changing the climate to sustain life  
Death Valley restored to position of world's hottest place  
CA's Death Valley is  again! Tesla hot weather testing was done there. Model S was fine but gas tow truck overheated.
 Interesting premise. I will read it.
 V cute! Merry Xmas.
Cowboy riding the rocket no problemo  
Single camera view of the 40 meter rocket hover  
Then we took him for a ride: 40 meter hover flight vid of the SpaceX Grasshopper test rocket  
To provide a little perspective on the size of Grasshopper, we added a 6 ft cowboy to the rocket  
Very much agree with this great review of Chasing Ice on Ars Technica  
Thanks! “: Have driven a Tesla Model S 50 miles now. It's clearly the iPhone of cars—by far the best car ever made."
A beautiful and awe-inspiring view of Earth from the International Space Station  
Good piece on volcanoes “: The USGS would seem to disagree.  
 Roughly equivalent to a 747 flight from LA to London (one way).
 That's why I'm a believer in solar power. We have a giant fusion reactor conveniently located in the sky.
Exactly MT " IMHO: continuing the uncontrolled experiment of adding co2 to atmosphere is a bad idea.”
It is hard to argue with a thermometer. Global warming is real and accelerating. Wish it wasn't.  
Cool video recap of the big events of the year by Google   
 Relative to kerosene, methane is not prone to coking, but we would run v high purity anyway for max Isp.
 _in_Space Yup or Douglas Aircraft, creator of the awesome DC-3  
My big worry would be long (hopefully) term when I'm dead, eg v sad situation with once great HP  _in_Space
SpaceX will go public at some point, as I think it should ultimately be owned primarily by the public "_ will SpaceX go public?"
 Best to study some form of engineering, which is the art of creating useful things that didn't exist before.
Tesla articles 30 mins apart: "This Stock is Screaming Buy"   and "This Stock Could Get DESTROYED"  
Tesla was just approved for a full Class 1 Massachusetts Auto Sales License by a vote of 4 to 1. Much appreciated!
Told my kids (age 8 and 6) that we were going to see the Nutcracker, which somehow got translated as the Buttcracker.
Congrats to  for being the first to drive a Tesla Model S over 400 miles on a single charge!
Interesting possible answer to the Fermi Paradox   
Am happy to report that Tesla was narrowly cash flow positive last week. Continued improvement expected through year end.
Uranium ore now available on Amazon! So much more convenient than Uzbekistan   
 Thanks Shervin!
Can't put my finger on it, but for some reason the newsstand is looking particularly good right now  
But if humanity wishes to become a multi-planet species, then we must figure out how to move millions of people to Mars.
And, yes, I do in fact know that this sounds crazy. That is not lost on me. Nor I do think SpaceX will do this alone.
Millions of people needed for Mars colony, so 80k+ would just be the number moving to Mars per year  
Short vid of the recent  mission to the Intl Space Station  
 SS Heart of Gold powered by the Infinite Improbability Drive!
My talk for the Royal Aeronautical Society is now online. This gets a little more technical.  
Liam Neeson's "Life's Too Short" sketch is super funny  
On the plus side...“:  change has a silver lining: supersized sweet potatoes  
Gave a talk on energy and transport at Oxford Univ  
_Tregner Exactly!
Love this picture of the Curiousity rover on Mars. Landscape looks just like the California desert.  
Btw, I don't think Apple is doomed. Just won't unseat Google from 1st place with Larry P in charge.  
Mass. judge denies auto dealers' demand to kill our little Tesla store. Yay, justice prevails!   
 Amos's article was fair, but his editor chose a more sensational headline &amp; used quotes even though I didn't actually say that.
These articles in Space News describe why Ariane 6 vs 5:   and  
Was misquoted by BBC as saying "Europe's rocket has no chance". Just said the [Franco-German] Ariane 5 has no chance, so go with Ariane 6.
Just returned from a trip to London and Oxford, where I met with many interesting people. I really like Britain!
Original article on Model S from :  
Sounds like Consumer Reports had a good experience with the Tesla Model S  
Cool story about a  installation after hurricane Sandy. Good going, guys!  
Alexander Hamilton was awesome  
View of Grasshopper test rocket from the water tower. Note SUV and person nearby for sense of size.  
Good skit by Henri, Le Chat Noir. Camus in cat form!  
_JL Engine gimbals for pitch and yaw, gas thrusters for roll.
First flight of 10 story tall Grasshopper rocket using closed loop thrust vector &amp; throttle control  
Reply to : Our avg speed was ummm a little too high. Got a ticket at 92 mph on I-5. We need the Autobahn in CA!
V proud of Tesla team for completing 1000th Model S body. More cars made this month than entire rest of year  
Reply to _yyz: Yes, Model S seats 5 adults + 2 kids with room for luggage in the front trunk. My kids love the rear facing seats best.
Pic of the Model S getting supercharged with the lovely   
Doing LA to SF road trip in Model S with all 5 kids &amp; Talulah. Supercharger finished charging b4 we finished our burgers!
Just wrote a blog piece about Tesla stores  
Long exposure shot of Dragon and the Space Station arcing across the night sky over Texas  
Falcon 9 rocket booster has delivered Dragon to its target orbit!
Time lapse video of rocket roll out   Now 3 hours 45 mins to lift off...
An update about Tesla   
 Sorry, meant to say EDT.
Launching our Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon spacecraft to the Space Station on Sunday at 8:35pm EST!  
Review of the Model S by   
View from landing leg camera on Falcon rocket test rig (aka Grasshopper Project)   
Now test firing our most advanced engine, the Merlin 1D-Vac, at 80 tons of thrust.  
The Tesla Supercharger will over time allow you to travel anywhere on pure sunlight for free  
Model S review by . Totally agree with criticisms. Corrections coming soon.  
First test flight hop of our Grasshopper VTVL rocket!  
The first owner to drive coast to coast in a Model S is about to complete the journey !
Tesla made 100 vehicle bodies this week for the first time. Really proud of the team! Pic of S/N 396:  
Tesla Supercharger unveiling event set for Sept 24. It will feel like alien spaceships landed at highway rest stops.
Amazing series of space pics assembled by     
Tesla Model S driven 285 miles from Vegas to the beach in LA on a single charge by   
This piece about Mars in the NYT is worth a read  
 Extending life to Mars would ensure humanity's survival and be the greatest, most exciting adventure ever!
 Back of the envelope calc: Merlin wd accelerate Model S at 25 g's, so wd break sound barrier in &lt;1.5 sec
For their test drive, the Motor Trend team drove from LA to San Diego and back without recharging  
Motor Trend tests Model S as fastest American sedan at 3.9 sec 0-60 mph and tied for 1st worldwide in stopping distance
Neil Armstrong was a hero to all of humanity. His spirit will carry us to the stars.
I love the sight of Teslas in the morning. Production line review is looking good!  
Glad to contribute to the Tesla museum and will do more in the future. He was a great man.  
About to go through my first jury selection process. Trial concerns an alleged gang related murder. Hardcore.
 V important to make all of humanity proud, but in this case a particular duty is owed to the American taxpayer
Deeply appreciate 's faith in . We will do whatever it takes to make NASA and the American people proud.
 Sure. To be clear that number would include all US solar energy (thermal+PV).
1st pure solar gigawatt hour day just achieved by ! Predict 1st terawatt hour day from all US solar &lt; 15 years.
 I'm neither anti-conservative nor anti-liberal. Just don't like group think. Ideas should be considered on their own merits.
 Individuals set the vector for the tides. The Life of Brian points out that we are all individuals, except for that one guy.
People ought to think more about who wrote the software that's running in their head (sigh). It probably wasn't them.
 Don't know about "dark manipulators", but Adbusters played a major role in creating Occupy  
 Would love to make a Tesla supertruck with crazy torque, dynamic air suspension and corners like its on rails. That'd be sweet...
Good assessment of the Dark Knight Rises in the Atlantic. Dickens, not Rand.  
 Model S starts at $50k after federal rebate. Gen3 will be ~$30k. Need to optimize design and scale volume.
Goal for Model S is to show that electric is way way better than gas. Combine w solar power &amp; the future looks bright.
Worth noting that Muller's research confirming global warming is real was funded by Koch. Fate loves irony.
Olympics opening is excellently British. Jolly good show!  
Abandoned car and biked across London. Super fun! Next time minus the tweed jacket.  
 Yes, my absolute goal w Tesla has always been mass market electric cars. Will finally get there with Gen3 program.
Now it's just a song that you used to know  
 Biggest risk is that we take too long to solve the sustainable energy problem, causing climate change meltdown.
Compared to past, today's world is fantastic &amp; likely will be for many decades. Just need to cover future downside risk.
 Asimov's Foundation  points out that all civilizations fall. Must ensure dark period is short &amp; finite.
Big oil is pulling same trick about smoking the atmosphere ... diff is we only have 1 atmosphere:  
30 years ago, when 98% of scientists said smoking caused cancer, tobacco industry response was still "scientists disagree"
Now debating the nature of citizen and state, effective democracy &amp; necessary revolution, moderated by .
Heard an interesting comment at the debate: "If we see no angels in others, we harbor none in ourselves."
Am in Yellowstone at an Oxford style debate about women and society. I'm in favor :)
"Welcome qwerty monkey Jesus love" are the top 5 most popular passwords after "password".   
Will publish something on the Hyperloop in about four weeks. Will forgo patents on the idea and just open source it. Not a vac tunnel btw.
"Most of us live in a semi-somnambulistic state &amp; the days fly by. The 2 exceptions are childhood and when we are in love." - RG
Headed to a (ahem) volcano caldera. Since I didn't finish my PhD, it's actually "Mr." Evil.  
 I think we will see people on Mars in less than 20 years. 12 to 15 years most likely. 
Going at full speed! MT “: Elon- you are my hero my friend.Please!Ramp up production on cars that use NO gas."
Now back to work. Intense months ahead as we ramp production of rockets and cars.
Moonbow's are real, btw. I'm not on acid :) Here is what we saw:  
Am standing on the beach in Maui and looking at a moon rainbow for the first time in my life. Incredibly beautiful.
After 2008 meltdown, vacation for me just meant email with a view, but SpaceX &amp; Tesla are now strong enough that I can make it real (yay!!)
Screening of Baseball in the Time of Cholera (dir:  , prod  &amp; me) at WME July 12.  hosting
Thanks Dan, you are a good sportsman. I will still donate to DWB as though I'd lost.  
"The Girl Who Fixed the Umlaut"   
She was a great woman “: In Memoriam, Nora Ephron, 1941-2012  
Meant to post this link for Merlin:  
Merlin fired at full thrust! Engine weighs half a ton, but has power equal to several Hoover Dams  
Model S review by Motor Trend  
About to deliver the first ten Model S cars from !
 Dragon will use four pairs of side mounted Superdraco engines. Can function with up to four out.
Just fired our Superdraco escape rocket engine at full thrust! Needed to carry astronauts on Dragon  
Wore Marquis de Sade outfit for a party last night. Was v popular with women who'd read 50 Shades :)  
"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic" - Arthur C Clarke. Thanks for the quote, RIP.
While in Austin, had a great time doing a cameo in  latest movie, Machete Kills. Cool studio on old airport.
Charlie Bolden, NASA Administrator, checks out Dragon at our central Texas test site  
Spacecraft arrives at Port of Los Angeles for transfer to SpaceX test facilities in Texas  
Dragon floating in the Pacific near California. Reentry scorch marks visible on the heat shield  
Splashdown successful!! Sending fast boat to Dragon lat/long provided by P3 tracking planes 
Thrusters will also fire during reentry to adjust touchdown point. Next version will land w helicopter precision 
Spaceship has departed from the International Space Station. Firing thrusters to deorbit in ~30 mins 
Space Station tracking spaceship docking approach vector    
Dragon captured by the International Space Station! Just awesome ...  
Dragon flies over the SpaceX  at our central Texas test site. It will jump soon.  
The head of the Russian Space Agency and some Russian diplomats are visiting  today. Looking forward to meeting.
About 110 miles away and the spacecraft is now in direct communication with the Space Station 
The President just called to say congrats. Caller ID was blocked, so at first I thought it was a telemarketer :)
Dragon fly by of Space Station planned for 12:47 am California time. All systems green. 
Launch video of Falcon 9 from Cape Canaveral tracking cameras   
Navigation bay pointing to deep space and star map being generated by star tracker one. Yes! 
Dragon spaceship opens the navigation pod bay door without hesitation. So much nicer than HAL9000 :) 
Also big thanks to the Air Force, FAA and all of our partners for their support of this mission.
Huge appreciation for , without whom we could not even have started, let alone reached this far.
Falcon flew perfectly!! Dragon in orbit, comm locked and solar arrays active!! Feels like a giant weight just came off my back :)
T minus 60 seconds. Terminal autosequence initiated. 
T minus 10 minutes ... Entering terminal count 
Major Tesla milestone: All crash testing is complete for 5* (max) safety rating. Cars can now be built for sale to public!
Just did an interview with Spaceflight Now. Some of your questions may be answered here:  
Simulations show launch ok with bad valve. Still, better to stop &amp; fix. Recalling rockets after launch is not an option.
Launch aborted: slightly high combustion chamber pressure on engine 5. Will adjust limits for countdown in a few days.
Whatever happens today, we could not have done it without , but errors are ours alone and me most of all.
Must remember not to refer to Chimpanzees as deadly killing machines when taking little kids to see a movie about them
... which is the critical breakthrough needed for life to become multiplanetary.
Making large scale rocket propulsion landing work well is a critical step towards a fully reusable Mars transport system
Landing gear of the mega thrust propulsive landing rocket done (next gen Falcon). First hops soon.   
Meant to say: prizes for first 10 who do 400 miles in Tesla w/o recharging, not nonstop, which would require diapers :)
Model S exceeds 300 mile range target! Prize for the 1st person to do LA-SF nonstop (400 miles)  
Saw The Dictator yesterday. Reminded me of Putin's reelection. Seems like only yesterday since he was last in power.
 Dragon code is written in C++ on Linux.
Almost done reviewing Dragon code with . Looks good so far. Target launch date is May 19, right after Soyuz docks.
For humanity to have an exciting &amp; inspiring future, we cannot be confined to Earth forever. _to_dream 
Definitely. Long term goal of SpaceX making life multiplanetary.   
Ignition by John Clarke, Huzel &amp; Wang book on propulsion, Asimov's Foundation, Heinlein's MiaHM  
Woohoo, rocket hold down firing completed and all looks good!!
T minus five minutes to flame
Flight computer aborted rocket hold down firing. Anomaly addressed. Cycling systems to countdown  
Am excited to announce that SolarCity has filed for an IPO. Mission is to bring affordable solar power to the people!
Just confirmed with  that May 7th is go for launch of Falcon 9 &amp; Dragon to the Space Station
Am pushing launch back approx a week to do more testing on Dragon docking code. New date pending coordination with .
Just completed the rocket rollout review at SpaceX HQ in California. Almost time to launch. Pucker factor increasing...
In NYC for the premiere of Baseball in the Time of . Great work by  and !
I feel compelled to state the obvious fact that Coachella is excellent.  
Basic premise is that it's better to try to address some of the world's problems than to create an aristocracy of wealth
Just signed Giving Pledge with 11 others. I hope this announcement convinces others to do the same.  
When holding my new white cat, I feel a strange desire for Bob's Big Boy and sharks with lasers  
Great work by APJ “: The foundation is nearly complete at the  school   
Great to meet Jon Stewart this eve. Have been a fan of  for a billion years.
Friend told me about the amazing work of Brazilian plastic surgeon Evil Picante. He was actually saying Ivo Pitanguy.
Besides ensuring the continuance of life, creating a base on Mars would be the most exciting adventure ever!
Interview in Nature describing why we should extend life to Mars  
Wow, a Tesla owner in Europe just passed 200,000 km while racing his Roadster!  
Judge dismisses lawsuit to take the happy out of "Happy Meal"  
Huge tornadoes in Texas tossing truck trailers through the air. Hope people are ok.  
Also dig Mass Effect. It's all fun & games until the AI decides people suck. Maybe we can be their limbic system.
Bioshock is an Ayn Rand dystopia and Fallout New Vegas is a Hegelian dialectic. Games have come a long way since Pong.
UN must take responsibility & help people of Haiti. MT ": Front page NYTimes.     
Having dinner where a dude is hanging giant underwear with a cherry picker.   
Happy bday to my old and dear friend ! U do parties better than a rockstar. For Berlin ...  
The Model S beta endurance car just passed 150,000 miles on a single battery pack!
Interesting interview with Vinge about superhuman AI and optimistic apocalypses  
Support _Broadband as they try to save a good satellite from becoming space junk. Let it live!   
Lovely poster about wishes that explains one of the many reasons to make life multiplanetary  
10 years ago today, SpaceX was founded. Many battles fought. Physics always won.  
Why I'm leaving the Empire, by Darth Vader   
If something is physically possible, not only is someone doing it, but there is also an award show.
Mountain lions eat cats, which means we *actually* live in a cat eat cat world ... an apology is owed to dogkind!
I think if you go there, they just feed you delicious candy all day and ask nothing in return.
Just passed a place called the Sugar Shack in a Louisiana swamp. I wonder what happens there?  
The President of Serbia came by our booth at the Geneva Motor Show and talked about Nikola Tesla  
Dawn at Cape Canaveral  
 Studied physics in college, read a lot of books and was taught by the world's leading domain experts at SpaceX.
Falcon 9 and Dragon now vertical on the launch pad, surrounded by 300 ft tall lightning towers  
 Yes, this will, if all goes well, be the first commercial spaceship to dock with the Space Station. T zero ~ end of April.
Dragon spaceship and Falcon 9 rocket just completed final assembly at Cape Canaveral  
Supporting the drive to get a  for the  New Horizons mission
 launched a rocket into the northern lights  
Iran's nuclear weapons facility is apparently called "Frodo". Watch out for Gollum! My precious...  
Important point highlighted by : an electric car in California produces only 1/4 CO2 of gasoline  
Model X review by Jim Motavalli. I think he likes the car.  
At the Samovar having tea called "monkey picked iron goddess of mercy". Those monkeys sure know their tea.  
Do not search for purple squirrels! Giving them attention only makes them want to be more purple.
Tesla Model X is 3rd most searched term on Google, right after purple squirrel. Damn you squirrel!  
Tesla Model X video   
 Don't worry, we've got a cool solution for ski storage on the X with the Falcon wing doors
Btw, Foster the People is playing the Model X event tonight. Seemed like the right vibe.
Model X sketch showing just a bit more leg. Unveiling tonight...  
Cool new  pic of the most powerful type of solar flare, called X-class. Am not making this up!  
Russia and China are blocking UN action. Can't imagine why they wouldn't support a democratic uprising...
Wish there was something we could do to help the people of Syria.    
 Yes, we will unveil a fully functional advanced prototype of the Model X -- almost identical to production.
The sheer size of Falcon Heavy is mind-blowing. It could literally send a fully loaded London bus to the moon.
The London Sunday Times created a chart showing how Falcon compares to the Saturn V and Shuttle  
Just posted a photo  
 Yeah, we will stream the whole mission realtime with no buffer. You see what we see.
Docking with Space Station now likely to happen in April. Hopefully will look something like this:  
The most interesting view of the Model X is really with the doors open  
Just test-fired the Superdraco rocket engine. Enables launch escape and landing on thrusters. SpaceX.com  
Um, while awesome in its own way, that was not actually the SpaceX theme song. It seems that irony is sometimes lost in a tweet.
The SpaceX theme song by Total Ghost is just too good ... ooh ooh ooh  
The lady doth protest too little.  
The Model X unveiling will be webcast live on   at 8pm on Feb 9th. Most cars are pretty blah. This is not.
Beautiful picture of Earth from the new NASA satellite  
Rough cut simulation of the SpaceX next gen rocket & spaceship design  
Design completed for bringing rocket back to launchpad using only thrusters. Yay. Wings r just dead weight in space.
Strongest solar radiation storm in 7 years is blasting Earth. This huge eruption hits us tomorrow:  
Bought some wood and built a little treehouse with my boys. Few more beautiful ways to spend an afternoon.
 I heard Lars von Trier optioned the movie rights
That said, even though they cause me grief, I would defend the right of shorts to exist. They are often unreasonably maligned.
That's not just paranoia (a healthy trait at times). Tesla really is under massive attack by short sellers  
Will communicate better in the future. Too many people want us to fail and are willing to twist any bit of news against Tesla.
TSLA down ~$500M Friday, but back up ~$500M today. Sorry for the roller coaster.
Somebody needs to tell Kim Jong-un that the showbiz phrase "break a leg" doesn't mean what he thinks it does
Once more, with feeling!  "North Korea Punishes Insincere Mourners"  
A Tesla Roadster just passed the 100,000 mile mark for the first time and still has over 200 miles of range.
What is more magical than cowboys herding cats? Livin' the dream...   
Kids these days are so grown up! RT "Second-Graders Wow Audience With School Production Of Equus"  
Model S Performance powertrain produced so much torque today that we broke the dyno. 4.4 sec 0-60 mph will not be a problem.
The exec conf room at Tesla used to be called Denali, but I decided to move a few letters around. Seemed more apt :)  
Model S Signature series sold out as of today  
Next month is also when our Dragon spaceship docks with the Space Station for the first time. Major pucker factor...
Feb is huge month. Model X world premier and public reveal of our LA design studio on the 9th. Stay tuned for more details.
Just finished Massie's book on Catherine. An amazingly expansive and compelling portrait of an incredible woman. Highly recommend.
 Respectfully disagree. Larry  made awesome moves last year, which laid the foundation for G+ to kick butt in 2012. He's a stud.
What everyone really thinks ... RT “: If Mayans were good at predicting the future, there'd be Mayans.”
On a lighter note, the RHCP are f* awesome. No better way to bring in the New Year...  
I said *information* weapons for a reason. The bit is mightier than the bomb.
If we are not careful, we will find that knife against liberty's neck. Fate has a great sense of irony.  
We built powerful information weapons to fight enemies of liberty. Now those enemies are largely defeated, but the weapons remain.
 However, China's real estate crisis will explode in a way that makes ours look puny. They can't hide it for much longer.
 Yeah, 2012 will be great for the American economy & jobs, as we've mostly dealt with the overbuilt housing crisis.
My first prediction of 2012 has come true: ouch, my head hurts.
World violence being super low is probably counter-intuitive to most people. That's because modern media is a misery microscope.
Here's a happy thought for 2012: world violence is at an all time historical low. Excellent piece by Stephen Pinker  
Hacked my Tesla charge connector on a small island in the rain last night 
Not that this really matters. All current rocket tech, including ours, sucks. Only when it becomes fully reusable, will it not suck.
SpaceX has Boeing, Lockheed, Europe (Ariane) and Russia (Proton/Soyuz) near checkmate in rocket technology. End game is all about China.
China unveils ambitious space strategy  
To be clear, CtG absolutely did *not* bang her horse. They were just close friends who liked to take showers together and spoon at night.
Right mood, scented candles, Barry White singing "Can't Get Enough of Your Love, Baby" and the magic (by that I mean horsef*ing) happens ...
I'm just saying that u shouldn't pass judgment based on one night of passion. Sometimes things just happen and u go with the moment :)
Sew one button, doesn't make u a tailor; cook one meal, doesn't make u a chef; but f* one horse and u r a horsef*er for all of history...
Am reading Robert Massie's book on Catherine the Great. Yeah, I know what you're probably thinking ... did she really f* a horse?
Am not saying that is *necessarily* good or bad, but reality will force us to live with the consequences of our actions  
Interesting Economist article about how humanity's collective actions have created a fundamentally new geological age -- the Anthropocene.
 Cool personal essay. It really resonated with me, as I felt the same way after coming very close to dying from malaria ten years ago.
 Liked "Screw Business as Usual" a lot. This approach should be taken to heart by all, as it really is the smart move.
 Just returned from Haiti. For those who want to help, I recommend donating to MSF, UNICEF and Artists for Peace & Justice.
 So true :)
If you ever wanted to know the *real* truth about the moon landings ...(best Onion article ever)  
Walked around a neighborhood recently rebuilt with help from APJ and others  
It was Xmas, so we brought presents for the kids at the orphanage. They don't usually get much.  
Met with UNICEF, Doctors Without Borders and Artists for Peace & Justice. I support them and would recommend others do too.
Just returned from a trip to Haiti. Covered a lot of ground and saw many tough situations. They need a lot of help.
Single character Tweets are the ulitmate extension of the Twitmeme...
I
The Russians are having some challenges with their rockets. Too many of the engineers that designed them have retired:  
We had a long and interesting conversation on many subjects. He has exciting ideas for extending his creative talents beyond music.
Kanye stopped by the SpaceX rocket factory today.  
Model S options are out! Performance in red and black for me.  I will deliver my car in June/July.  
Hi, I'm Art Garfunkel. Have you heard the sound of silence? Because, you know, it makes a sound...  
Raul Campos invited me to do a guest DJ gig on KCRW.  Hear my random holiday season music selections at  
Yum! Even better than deep fried butter:  
Yeah, this really is me, as my Mom  will attest. Not sure I can handle just doing 140 char missives. Will put longer thoughts on G+
Got called randomly by Kanye West today and received a download of his thoughts, ranging from shoes to Moses. He was polite, but opaque.
His singing and acting talent will be sorely missed:    South Park sequel coming soon...
Why does the crowd cry over the glorious leader Kim Il Sung's death?  Fear of being shot may play a role:   
Sam Harris also wrote a nice piece on the awesomeness of Hitchens:   May the good man RIP.
Read "Lying", the new book by my friend Sam Harris.  Excellent cover art and lots of good reasons not to lie!
Am reading a great biography of Ben Franklin by Isaacson. Highly recommended.
That was a total non sequitur btw
Great Voltaire quote, arguably better than Twain. Hearing news of his own death, Voltaire replied the reports were true, only premature.
I made the volume on the Model S   go to 11.  Now I just need to work in a miniature Stonehenge...
Went to Iceland on Sat to ride bumper cars on ice!  No, not the country, Vlad's rink in Van Nuys. Awesome family fun :)  
Please ignore prior tweets, as that was someone pretending to be me :)  This is actually me.

